We think inflation is going to continue
to move lower once we get past this
little bump related to tariffs.
>> The pass through of the tariffs into
inflation has just been a lot slower
than what I'd expected.
>> Tariffs are going to increase prices.
>> I don't think that we should be pulling
our hair out that inflation is about to
take off again. If inflation starts
accelerating, I mean, you can't rule out
that they skipped December.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. President Trump slapping
another round of tariffs on specific
sectors on goods. Uh, overnight,
Europeans privately warning Russia of
plans to shoot down jets intruding on
their territory. Big investors from
David Einhorn to Ken Griffin are worried
about a tech bubble and markets Emory
are largely ignoring it all. Largely
ignoring it even though there is now
fresh uncertainty in this market from a
number of issues whether or not the AI
spend is actually going to be tangible
and then of course policy once again out
of Washington. The markets have become
almost numbed when it comes to trade and
tariffs out of this administration.
Trump comes out shock and awe on a
number of issues. Most notably for
financial markets is pharmaceuticals.
But then you start to really read into
the story and you realize that there's
going to be exemptions. There's going to
be carveouts. So at the moment, carry on
and keep going. Well, right now I hear
but but but yelling at my ear in my ear
saying this was the first week
potentially three straight days of
losses. First time that we've seen that
in September going back to August 21st.
We have not seen that type of trend. We
could see a down week for the first time
and potentially the most going back uh
to middle of August. There was this fear
percolating in markets and I feel like
it took on a new life this week, Emory.
This idea that maybe the tech
investments were getting a little ahead
of their skis and we saw a real pile on
with that type of concern. Albeit not
necessarily expressed in any kind of
prolonged sell-off.
>> No, because guess what? We're still what
just short of record highs on this stock
market. But you are starting to hear and
I think this week it has been a change
of tone and rhetoric. People are
starting to take pause. They have a fear
of missing out. At the same time, you
know, history doesn't always repeat
itself, but it rhymes and everyone's
thinking about what happened in the do
bubble. You look at what David Einhorn
said yesterday, famed hedge fund
manager. The numbers that are being
thrown around are so extreme that it's
really, really, really hard to
understand them, which is the reason why
we saw just a little bit of a dip. But
this morning, uh, we're trying to push
forward a real question here also
heading into 8:30 a.m. Eastern time when
we do get core PCE. That is the metric
of inflation the Fed is watching along
with personal income, personal spending,
a fear percolating into markets that
maybe the Fed wouldn't move quite as
quickly as people had expected. Well,
Neil Duta, one of those individuals
who's been calling for the Fed to be
cutting rates well before they started
this month, saying that yeah, if you get
hot inflation prints, potentially you
have a pause, say in December when it
comes to the Federal Reserve and
yesterday's jobless claims, they were so
good, those numbers that potentially now
the market is going to focus a little
bit more maybe on CPI and that concern
because there are still members at the
FOMC are that are concerned about
tariffs and their impact on inflation.
Yeah, right now we are seeing markets
that essentially aren't doing much, but
they're not going down. And that's
giving people a really positive signal,
at least apart from the NASDAQ. We're
looking at S&P uh just basically uh the
futures up about a tenth of a percent
across the board. The euro claiming back
some ground after losing against the
dollar weakening, the most going back to
July 31st on two days of upside
surprises in economic data in the US.
and this feeling that maybe the Fed
isn't going to go quite as far as fast
as people expected. How important is
going to be that inflation read at 8:30
a.m. Eastern. Coming up this hour, we're
going to be speaking with Cameron Dawson
of New Edge Wealth. His stocks look to
snap their longest losing streak in a
month. Alex Hustle of Redburn on why he
has the streets loan sell on Oracle. And
Mike Darta of Roth Capital looking ahead
to the latest read on inflation. We
begin this hour with stocks little
change as investors await PCE inflation
data. Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth
writing this. Equities have been in
meltup mode, which helps to explain the
recent 3-day breather we have seen in
shares, but we are still very much in an
uptrend and continued positive weekly
momentum. Definitely an understatement.
Cameron, we look at some of the
valuations. Cameron joins us now, which
is a wonderful thing. Cameron, I just
want to start with the question that we
were kind of uh bantering about. This
idea why the market isn't responding
more to the new bazooka of tariffs
announced overnight. Well, because
earnings estimates continue to go up and
you use the word numb and it's sort of
an uncomfortably numb kind of scenario
where we have not seen tariffs impact
earnings estimates. Look at the second
quarter earning season. Big surprises to
the upside because people were expecting
tariffs to hit earnings immediately and
they didn't. And so companies raised
guidance and and gave good outlooks. I
think the question is as we go into the
third quarter, do we start to see some
of those tariff impacts start to hit
earnings where investors will look at
the the layout of tariffs and say maybe
this is more of an earnings negative
thing than what we experienced just in
the second quarter.
>> Well, this to me is really interesting
because a lot of people are saying that
this market momentum hinges on earnings
and if there is one bad earnings report
that could potentially torpedo a lot of
this momentum. Is this how you see
things or do you think it's a little
more complicated than that? Well, we
we've been saying that the key reason
why the market continues to make new
highs is because 12-month forward
earnings estimates continue to make new
highs. But it must be noted that the
majority of those earnings upside is
coming from just a small handful of
names. Michael Symbolus put out a a a
stat earlier this week that said over
the last 3 years, 80% of the earnings
growth in the S&P 500 has come from the
AI related names. 80%. Which means that
we are relying on such a small cohort of
names to drive this kind of upside.
Well, yesterday there was this report in
the Financial Times about how Sam Alman,
Mark Zuckerberg are getting close to the
president and an insider said, "Well, we
really need that AI investment." This is
a marriage of convenience because the
economy wouldn't be doing so well
without that AI investment. What would
this market look like would actually out
those trillions of dollars being put
towards AI? It would look like the equal
weight index which might be near new
all-time highs but on a relative basis
it has significantly underperformed the
cap weighted index which just is a
reflection of the fact that equal weight
earnings are still getting cut. You're
still seeing earnings revisions lower.
The cap weighted is going up because you
have this benefit from the large AI
related capex names and so as long as
that continues we would expect this
market to remain narrow because earnings
growth is narrow. What do you make of
the likes of David Einhorn being a
little bit nervous saying it's really
really hard to understand these types of
numbers? Completely agree. We've been
writing for the last couple of months
that it's fascinating that these
businesses which were very capital light
and near monopolies are now transforming
into capital inensive businesses that
are much more competitive. That says to
us that return on invested capital will
go down for these businesses if they
continue to spend the way that they
have. The question is when does the
market care? The market hasn't cared
because the MAG 7 has grown earnings at
a 40% annualized rate for the last 5
years. So if that earnings start to
level off, if topline growth starts to
level off, that would tell us that the
market will start to care about return
on invest invested capital degradation.
There also is this idea that they're
using free cash flow to make these huge
investments and suddenly overnight we're
talking more about the debt side of
things and the fact that tech debt
issuance is running at a pretty fast
clip and seems to be accelerating into
the uh into the end of the year. How do
you view the idea of leverage being
introduced to the tech story? It
certainly adds a layer of risk. It's one
thing when you spend your own money, a
different thing when you spend other
people's money. And I think it's
fascinating though is that there's still
a ravenous appetite for this debt. You
are seeing these deals be overs
subscribed. You're seeing the spread of
that debt be very very tight for the
given risk. The fact that Oracle is able
to come out with 40-year bonds that are
so well in demand just tells you that
there is still so much liquidity in this
market and there's still so much
optimism related to the AI trade.
>> There are a lot of worries out there.
There always have been. And I think 2008
conditioned everybody to look for the
bubbles and the potential pitfalls
ahead. I do wonder though how much this
is just turbocharged by a Fed that has
shown its cards and that essentially
it's going to have some sort of easing
bias. Is there a real kind of catalyst
in this 8:30 a.m. core PCE should it
come in a lot hotter than expected
simply because it stymies the hopes and
dreams of the Fed dove watchers.
>> I think that we have to think of the Fed
in two very different camps. Old Fed
cares about inflation. New Fed, which
we'll get sometime next year, probably
doesn't care as much and is going to go
to 3% almost in every single economic
scenario, which means that you would
have to see a very large meaningful
uptick in inflation in order for the new
Fed to not cut rates aggressively. So,
in the near term, it means that you
likely, if you get higher inflation, you
won't get the rate cuts as soon because
old Fed cares about the dual mandate.
Well, can we have new Fed policy with
ahead of the Fed that's part of the old
Fed?
>> Yeah, it's a great question of do we
actually get that kind of shadow Fed and
do people does the bond market price it
in? It's no surprise the bond market is
pricing in the Fed effectively gets to
3% by this time next year. Then comes
the debate which we heard from Steven
Myron yesterday which was where is
neutral? If you have a large cohort of
the Fed arguing that neutral is far
lower, we could be talking about a Fed
funds rate that's below 3%. And then the
question is, what's the consequence of
that? What's the consequence of that on
the long end of the yield curve? And
then how would they potentially respond
to the long end of the yield curve
backing up? And do we see this Fed
starting to talk about things like yield
curve control? Do you think this idea of
a new Fed could actually basically be
instituted before Powell leaves? Like in
terms of FOMC me members actually lining
up for what say Steven Meyer envisions
>> I think right now you're seeing members
line up because there's sort of an
audition. We see we think it's kind of
like a chorus line where they say God I
hope I get it. And so you have this
audition where they're all talking very
dovish things in order to potentially
get the nod for Fed chair. But it is an
important point that there are many
voting members on the Fed. It's not just
one person. My room was a lone dot uh
when we when we got the 2025 dot. So
it's not a given. But we think that the
the true outcome is still once we get
into 2026, this time next year, that
you're likely looking at much lower
rates.
>> You sound concerned. You sound bearish.
Are you investing in a bearish way?
>> Look, what what keeps us optimistic is
12-month Ford estimates keep going up
and that we're still in an uptrend. And
we very much respect the uptrend and we
respect the momentum and we've been
noting that positioning is still fairly
not stretched. You have the Deutsche
Bank consolidated positioning report
that's still just in the 69th
percentile. And if you look at the
discretionary investors, they're only in
the 40th percentile. So there's still
money that can be dragged kicking and
screaming into this market, which is why
we think we continue to remain in an
uptrend.
>> You could hate the theme, but she can
love the returns. Cameron Dawson, you're
sticking with us. Thank you so much.
Right now, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here's
your Bloomber brief with Yahara Anna.
Dehyra,
>> hi Lisa. President Trump announcing a
fresh round of tariffs. The
administration is imposing a 100% tariff
on name brand pharmaceuticals effective
October 1st unless the companies build
manufacturing plants in the US. New
duties will also hit cabinets and
vanities, furniture, and heavy trucks at
the rate you can see there.
Meanwhile, President Trump also signing
an executive order finalizing a deal to
spin out Tik Tok's US business with
officials setting its potential value at
$14 billion and shrinking Bite Danc's
stake to less than 20%, but the
valuation is well below previous
projections closer to 40 billion. So
far, buyers include Oracle, Silverlake,
and MGX.
And lawyers for Fed Governor Lisa Cook
asked the Supreme Court not to allow
President Trump to immediately remove
her, saying the move risks chaos and
disruption in markets and would quote
sound the death nail for central bank
independence. The administration has
asked the court to permit the president
to remove Cook while litigation over the
legality of her fire firing continues.
That's Bloomberg Reef. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yhira, up next,
increasing the risk of a government
shutdown. This is all caused by the
Democrats. They uh asked us to do
something that's totally unreasonable.
They never change. They want to give
money away to illegals illegally. This
is what Schumer wants. This is what the
Democrats want.
>> Tyler Kendall of Bloomberg joining us
next. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
Welcome back to Bloomberg Surveillance.
John is on a well-deserved day off. It
is me and Anarie holding down the fort.
We woke up overnight. There was a slew
of information from President Trump
having to do with all of the tariffs.
This morning we come into relative calm
in markets. But I want to take a look at
three specific stocks that are being
affected. Wayfair, Restoration Hardware,
and William Sonoma. Three furniture
related homegoods types of shares. You
can see in pre-market trading, they're
taking a hit led by Restoration
Hardware, which had the CEO dropping
fbombs on a recent call talking about
being able to or not being able to pass
along price increases to consumers.
Those shares lower the futures down by
4.2%. But amaria, it really raises this
question of why the broader market isn't
responding more. You are seeing small
pockets that are seeing a little bit
perhaps of skepticism. I'd love to hear
what the Restoration Hardware CEO has to
say this morning when he sees his share
price down after Trump announced these
tariffs. So, it's a 30% tariff on
upholstered furniture and a 50% levy on
kitchen cabinets and bathroom vanities.
The market is definitely selling this
off at the moment, but I still think we
need more details from the Trump
administration. They're doing this
through 232 section tariffs. We need
more details and exactly potentially are
there going to be exemptions
potentially. Do the tariffs come down if
you're building more of these products
or at least percentage of these products
in the United States?
>> Yeah. And how much as you said earlier
this morning, how much of this is a
hedge against if the Supreme Court does
overrule some of the tariffs put on by
AIPA? But to that idea that you were
talking about earlier this morning,
Emory, about a numb market. If you look
at the broader price action, you can't
see it. Essentially, you're looking at
an uptrend. uh fading a little bit from
earlier this morning, but the S&P
futures basically flat. You're looking
at a 10-year yield also almost flat,
unchanged, 4.17%.
And then you're looking at a dollar
that's weakening just a touch after two
significant days of strengthening on the
heels of some better thanex expected US
economic data under surveillance this
morning. Take into account this one,
increasing risk of a government
shutdown.
>> This is all caused by the Democrats.
They uh asked us to do something that's
totally unreasonable. They never change.
They want to give money away to illegals
illegally. Uh people that entered our
country illegally. They want to give
them massive federal money and we don't
want to do that. This is what Schumer
wants. This is what the Democrats want.
They want to have and they want to take
our money.
>> Here's the latest. The risk of a
government shutdown rising with funding
set to lapse on October 1st. Blue
Brook's Tyler Kendall joins us now.
Tyler, it seems like almost a certainty
at this point given the schedule of
Congress,
>> right? Exactly, Lisa. We are now four
working days away from a potential
government shutdown unless lawmakers are
able to strike a deal. We have to keep
in mind here in order for the bill to
pass, Republicans in the Senate need at
least seven Democrats to get on board.
And we saw a previous measure already
fail. Republicans had wanted to keep the
government open through a stop gap
measure through November 21st. But now
Democrats are trying to use their
leverage to negotiate on some other
provisions. In fact, I spoke to one
senior aid to Democratic leader Chuck
Schumer who told me that they are dug in
on this and they feel that they're
actually well positioned here because
after what we saw happened last time
around and the sort of scrutiny that
Chuck Schumer was under, it appears that
they're going to stay on this path. Now,
when it comes to what they're asking
for, Democrats have a few different
provisions that they're looking to get
through when it comes to this spending
uh plan, this government spending plan,
but they all have to do with healthcare.
One is extending or making permanent
some of the expiring Obamacare tax
subsidies. This one might be the one
where we actually see the most potential
compromise. Senate Majority Leader John
Thun has signaled an openness to
negotiate on this, but these other
provisions that Democrats uh are looking
to negotiate on, including making it
more difficult for the administration to
claw back previously allocated funding
related to healthcare, as well as
rolling back some of those changes that
we saw to Medicaid under the one big
beautiful bill. Those seem a lot harder
uh to get around since they really do go
handinhand with some of the
administration's uh policies that
they've been promoting. But Lisa, at
this point, as you said, it does feel
like we are careening closer to it, and
the stakes are just getting higher.
President Trump derailed a a planned
meeting that we had been reporting on
that was set to take place yesterday
with Democratic leaders, and now there's
this threat that uh there could be these
permanent layoffs for federal workers if
a deal isn't done. Tyler, aren't we
basically just accepting there's going
to be a shutdown? Because Speaker
Johnson told lawmakers, told
Republicans, don't bother coming back
from your recess until after the clock
would strike for it to be a shutdown.
So, at some point, are they to blame
because they didn't even show up for a
vote?
>> Well, that's a good point here, but of
course, we know that the administration
is working closely between the House and
the Senate. All of the moves under the
Trump administration have been
coordinated when it comes to both
chambers of Congress. It's going to be
something that we're going to have to
wait and see. Of course, Amarie, you
know better than anyone. Washington
loves anything more. It's it's a
deadline. They love to be fueled by a
deadline. But at this point, it's been
really interesting to see Democrats
really dig in on this, including those
lawmakers that represent those uh areas,
those districts that take in the most
federal workers. Even with the threat
that there could be permanent layoffs
down the road, they do appear to be
pretty dug in. One uh point that was
pointed out to me is that many Democrats
have been expected this already a plan
to to decrease the workforce when it
comes to federal workers already. So,
the threat from the administration and
the OM memo memo that we got yesterday
didn't really come as a surprise.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall, thank you so
much for being with us. Cameron Dawson
of New Edge Wealth still with us.
Cameron, adding this to the list of
things that sound like they could be a
problem, but markets don't seem to think
will be a problem. Can you reconcile the
idea that potential layoffs could cause
some serious economic damage at a time
when most people are shrugging this off
as just simply theatrics? Yeah, I think
it's probably the most important point
is that we're not talking about furlows
where people go home and get back pay,
but actually talking about firings. So,
this seems like a maybe more of like a
shut doge instead of just a shut down.
And so, if we have that though, it's
likely that you'll start to see that
show up in some of the data and an
important point. You might not get the
data when you think you do if we are in
the midst of the shutdown, which just
means that this uncertainty as well as
the impact could be a source of
volatility. This is a really important
point given the fact that there's been
such a huge emphasis on the labor market
and any kind of trend that we might see
with respect to firing and hiring if we
don't get the non-farm payrolls report
on October 3rd and that's becoming an
increasing likelihood. How does the
market read that?
>> Yeah, dancing in the dark, right? In the
absence of information, we think it
would probably just increase demand for
hedges, increase the uncertainty, which
just means that this very calm placid
market that we have been in could see an
increase in volatility.
>> Unless they declare someone as essential
to push the number, we might we could
maybe not have a jobs report. What does
that mean for the Federal Reserve?
>> Yeah, again, it it's it's something that
we really haven't had to deal with. And
so the the Fed will probably then lean
towards other kinds of data potentially
to give them guidance. Uh but it
probably means that the the path that
they set forward in the latest dot plot
where we do have the expectation of of
another rate cut likely gets delivered
and they'll say look if people are
actually getting laid off the jobs data
is likely going to be bad even if we
don't have it.
>> Yeah. But how are you data dependent
when you don't have the data?
>> That's a great question.
>> You can't be right. It can't be.
>> Besides this economic impact with maybe
not having the data you need to make
investment decisions or to understand
what the Federal Reserve is thinking,
does the shutdown actually matter to
financial markets? It it typically
doesn't. It typically doesn't because
we're also usually typically talking
about furloss. So everything is
temporary. If there is a permanence to
this where we see a shrinking of the of
the labor force in the government, I
think it's important to note is that so
many of the jobs that have been added
even with the revisions lower that we've
seen over the last couple of months have
come from the government sector, which
just causes you to question where will
the uptick in jobs come from to make way
or to to make up for the fact that
you're losing jobs in this allimportant
area.
>> You know, I'm struggling with this and I
was thinking about this last night. M
the headlines were coming out fast and
furious. 100% tariffs and
pharmaceuticals, 25% on kitchen and and
and bathroom vanities, which you know
rang true to me because I'm in the
middle of a renovation. Like all of
these types of things that come through
and you think, "Wow, the world's going
to be on fire tomorrow." And you come in
the next day and it's nothing. It's just
completely calm. Everyone kind of moving
forward. There is this feeling of policy
immunity. Do you think that that can
last? that companies can adapt and
adjust to such a degree that a lot of
the noise is just that and they can keep
doing what they always do which is
making products providing services and
making money. The golden rule is that
whatever happens in DC or
geopolitically, if it does not impact
earnings, it's likely temporary and
something to fade in markets. And
because we continue to see this march
higher in earnings estimates, which as
we talked earlier is really dependent on
just a handful of names that probably
don't care too much about tariffs,
meaning the AI related names, that as
you see that uplift in earnings
estimates, the markets can shrug this
off. The big challenge will be is that
at the end of the day, these AI names
still breathe the same economic air as
we do. So if all of these things cause
the economy to do in fact slow down,
then that's where this becomes a bigger
equity market issue.
>> Building on Lisa's point though, the
fact that you see all these headlines
and the market just pretty much shrugs
it all off besides some specific
sectors.
>> Does the Trump put still exist?
>> The Trump put exists, but it's with a
strike price that's far lower than we
are today. And I think that remember if
we go back to April when the Trump put
happened, it was when markets were
already gapping down nearly 20% and you
were you were seeing some spicy uh price
action within the bond market. So to
think that given the fact that we're
just a couple percentage points off of
all-time highs that the Trump put is
here. Most absolutely not. You would
need to see a much bigger uptick in not
just volatility in equity markets, but
you'd have to see volatility in bond
markets as well to get the Trump put
back in action. All I can say is Cameron
Dawson of New Edge Wealth. You're one of
the best and you are the only person I
know who thinks in song lyrics and who
actually speaks in song lyrics as well
and I had to listen to I melt with you
last night because of your latest note.
So, thank you. Thank you for that. The
soundtrack of Cameron Dawson right now
in markets. You're not seeing a ton of
action just basically flat after three
straight days of losses. Coming up,
Oracle in talks for a board seat on the
US version of Tik Tok with a price tag
that's raising a lot of eyebrows, not
for how high it is, but for how low it
is. Alex Hassel of Redburn on why he has
a sell rating on that stock. Plus, Daddy
Burgerer with your morning movers intel
and GFS jumping on a new White House
chip rule. This is Blford Surveillance.
[Music]
Good morning. Welcome back. We are
looking at a market that's trying to
claw out some gains after three straight
days of losses, although not really
going anywhere in a world wash with
news, but unclear how it's going to
shake out in the corporate earnings.
Basically flat on the S&P futures.
NASDAQ a little bit lower and Russell
2000 down by about 3/10en of a percent
in the bond space. Concern heading into
that 8:30 a.m. print. Do we see
resurgent inflation that could styy the
Fed's plans to cut yet again in October
and then again in December? You're
seeing that move particularly in the
10ear space, but nothing significant,
less than a basis point up. And then in
the currency space, we had seen two
straight days of dollar strengthening,
the greatest amount going back to July
31st against the euro. We're breaking
that with a bit of gains in the euro uh
1672. Three hours away from the cash
open. Here is your morning mover segment
with Danny Burgerer. Danny,
>> hey Lisa, what a month it's been for
Intel already up 40%. And we add weight
to that this morning with Wall Street
Journal reporting that the Trump
administration has a plan to encourage
the use of homegrown US chips. That plan
has been sending shares of Intel higher
by 3% this morning and Global Foundaries
that moves higher by 10%. We also have a
lot of new tariffs, sectoral tariffs to
work through. Be it pharma, be it
kitchen cabinets, be it trucks. Let's
start with trucks though. The heavy
truck tariff that Trump has announced,
it's hitting a lot of the European
players really, really hard this
morning. Daimler trucks for example, but
Packar, a US domestic truck manufacturer
that makes 25% of heavy trucks in the
US, those shares move higher by 5 a.5% I
should say. Volvo trucks also moving
higher in the European trade because it
also makes a lot of its trucks for here
in this market. Finally, I mentioned
some of the things like kitchen
cabinets, which gets a 50% tariff, and
upholstered furniture that gets a 30%
tariff. You can see what a lot of these
retail names are doing this morning,
getting hit so hard. RH down 4%. Wayfair
that sinks by 4% as well. William
Sonoma, those shares down, Lisa by 2 and
a half%.
>> Thank you so much, Danny. We're watching
that to see why it is so specific and
whether it will fade with everything
else this morning. On our radar this
morning, President Donald Trump imposing
100 100% tariff on patented
pharmaceuticals effective October 1st
unless producers manufacture in the
United States. Trump's latest levies
also impact imported trucks, furniture,
and cabinetry as Danny was just talking
about. Meanwhile, European diplomats
warning the Kremlin that NATO is ready
to use full force, including shooting
down planes to respond to airspace
violations. That message follows a
recent incursion by Russian jets over
Estonia. Russian denying the violation,
but a real question here. A lot of
questions, Amory, about how quickly they
are willing to coales around more
affirmative responses to Russia and what
their capabilities are to do so. I think
the big question is whether or not the
Europeans want to act with deterrence or
they're concerned about escalation,
which we've heard from say the German
foreign minister saying this could be
Europe sleepwalking into a trap set by
the Russians. And I think we need to
remember back in 2015 when a Russian jet
came into Syria uh Turkish airspace was
on the border uh with Syria and Turkish
a Turkish jet shot that tur the Russian
jet down and it became this huge flash
point where the the Russians were
incredibly upset with with Turkey but
NATO then came on the side of Turkey
even though all they kept trying to do
was escalate. And that is the fine line
and flash point that all these European
countries and NATO at large is trying to
understand. They want to make sure that
they set a deterrence, but they don't
want to escalate when it comes to the
face off with Putin.
>> What's fascinating is just the technical
aspects of this. Mark Roto, the NATO
general secretary, Secretary General,
sat down with editor-in chief John McTe
yesterday and was talking about how they
have the wrong equipment to shoot down
some of these drones. it could
potentially be half a million dollars uh
worth of equipment to shoot them down.
Whereas these drones cost very little
and they're trying to use technology
from the Ukrainians that were developed
to try to shoot them down. It just
highlights the different nature of
warfare and how far Europe is trying to
go in order to be prepared to counter.
>> Yeah, they definitely probably need some
more F-16s if they're going to be doing
this. Um, I also think it's interesting.
We have reporting that there was talks
in Moscow with all these envoys and the
Russians said the reason why they had
these incursions was a response to
Ukrainian attacks on Crimea. And they
said Ukraine would not have been able to
carry out these attacks without the help
of NATO. So, we're going into this
potential tit fortat between NATO and
Russia. And that is why there is this
fine line and serious concern about not
wanting to escalate but also making sure
you do set a deterrence the way Syria
did in 2015. Yeah, more on that
throughout the morning. Meanwhile, back
in the United States, attorneys for Fed
Governor Lisa Cook are asking the
Supreme Court to block President Trump
from firing her. Cook's lawyers warning
that removing her would cause quote
chaos in markets and compromise the
Fed's independence. We're talking about
that extensively, especially as people
try to understand exactly what the
composition is of the Fed heading into
2026. In the tech space, Oracle,
Silverlake, and Emirati firm MGX are in
talks for a 45% stake in the US version
of Tik Tok. Sourc is telling us here at
Bloomberg that the companies are also
aiming for board seats. Alex Hassel of
Redbird, who covers Oracle and has the
only cell rating on the street, joins us
now. Alex, thank you so much for being
with us. Before we get to your call on
Oracle and some of your uh methodology
behind that cell rating, I do want to
get your thoughts on Tik Tok. This $14
billion price tag given what some people
expected would have been a 40 or 50
billion company. Was it surprising to
you to see that?
>> Yeah, I mean it would imply that um
first of all, thanks for having me on
the show. It would imply there's like a
mean for gain from an Oracle
perspective. Uh if the previous
expectations was around, let's say 40
billion, now it comes in at 40 billion
if approved. um there will be a
windfall. Um however from an Oracle you
know share price impact it's still
insignificant. Uh so we estimate that
this windfall is less than a percent. So
over no big implication doesn't really
move the needle.
>> You have a sell rating on Oracle and a
growing number of investors are
coalesing around if not the sell the
concern that you raised in your note.
this fear that Oracle has expanded too
quickly, that people's hopes and dreams
for their expansion of their earnings
have gotten a little over their skis and
that they're now using debt to finance
their buildout, not just free cash flow
after kind of running out of that uh in
order to keep spending. What's your take
on why there still is so much more
downside?
>> I mean, first of all, um with regards to
price of $175, that's not a bare case.
That's our base case. I just wanted to
clarify. I mean what we have seen is
we've seen like really big figures in
terms of like you know contract wins and
also like revenue guide but our
methodology shows that actually the
value is relatively small for all of
these deals and so we put out this 60
billion value for the next 5 year of
like revenue guide which is
significantly less than what the market
is currently pricing in
>> you said with regards to the that sorry
>> oh no continue
>> with regards to the that our view is
that the market is also you know very
likely to underestimate how much capex
is required and we are still in the very
early innings of this investment cycle.
So the further we go in the ramp there
will be much more capital requirements
because operating cash flows are not
covering uh any of these capex to the
extent needed.
>> When you look at these capex headlines
do you just see them and think there's
no way this is going to become tangible
in ter of terms of earnings per share?
Um what we what we say is that the
market is underestimating the associated
cost with this capex because obviously
you have like depreciation you have like
leases etc. So we uh really advise
investors to look beyond the headline
figures in terms of the real economics.
So we see downside risk um do consensus
expectations on the profit level.
>> When you say in your note that you think
not just the downside risk you think
there's going to be a shift to
underlying economics. What about the
underlying economics of Oracle don't you
like?
I mean the underlying economics
is basically
it's not the business that we know from
the from the cloud business because
traditional cloud 1.0 you know the
hyperscalers have built the
infrastructure have extended server
lifetime and over time they've layered
software on top which was a great
fantastic business because it provided
operating leverage software like
margins. These kinds of transactions are
much more like a financing spread where
the price and the costs are fixed. Very
different economics. It's a different
business model.
>> Alex, this is a reason why a number of
people are agreeing with you and are
looking at Oracle as something different
than say Amazon or Microsoft and trying
to distinguish the winners from the
losers. We've been talking about the
David Einhorn quote, so I'll read it to
you. The numbers that are being thrown
around are so extreme that it's really
really hard to understand them. He's
talking about the investment in
technology and sort of the
infrastructure around it. Ken Griffin
yesterday of Citadel on AI saying there
are obviously echoes of dot. a question
over how much money will be lost and who
the losers are going to be. How many of
the big tech giants are you pinpointing
as potential losers in this race that is
uh garnering so much cash?
I mean that's you know exactly the
reason why why we launched on on Oracle
with accelerating because we see their
role much more of like financing all of
these capex that's a very very different
business model you know the Microsoft
Amazon and Google that built the data
center built the infrastructure and
layering software on top this is a very
different economics and this is where
the mode is created we just don't see
Oracle in the same ballpark here
>> but the others can keep on gaining is
that what you're saying that Oracle can
kind of be in its own world of hurt can
fall out of bed But everyone else can
keep winning and keep getting uh the
valuations that they're currently
trading at.
>> Yeah. So we have buy ratings on Amazon
and Microsoft. I think you know capex is
like one part B where you buy the
hardware put it in place but what um the
traditional hyperscalers do is they
spend like tens of billions in R&D to
build the software layer and this is
where the economics are very very
different. So if Oracle really wants to,
you know, catch up, then not only capex
goes up, but also R&D has to accelerate
meaningfully. And we haven't seen um
this at this point in time.
>> What would it take for you to reverse
your sell rating?
>> Uh with the stock being at $175.
>> So you wanted to hit your price target
and and then you're good to go for a
buy.
>> And um no, also I think the other point
is we would need to see like a real
progress towards like how they can
capture um you know the upper part of
the stack. So we'd need to see like R&D
uh investments going up. We'd also see
uh like progress in terms of like cloud
migration where Oracle is lagging SAP
for example. So they have to put in
place the prerequisites to actually
capture the higher value uh part of the
stack and we just don't see that at this
point.
>> Alex heel of Rothschild and company
Redburn, thank you so much for being
with us. This is really the question and
Emory, this is really the point that
David Einhorn and Ken Griffin are making
and so many other people. There will be
big winners, but there also will be big
losers as there have been in every
industrial buildout that attracts just
the same type of flood of cash.
>> And that's why everyone is so concerned
cuz just as Dan Ies would say, what the
first second inning, when do you
actually start to see who really are
going to be the losers in this race when
they're coming out with headlines of
billions and even trillions of dollars
that are going towards this industry?
>> And at the same time, there is this idea
of creative destruction, right? And that
you need to kind of flood the zone in
order to get the technology up. So, how
much is this a feature and not
necessarily a bug? Let's get to an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here's a Bloomberg brief with
Yhierra Anandhira.
>> Hi, Lisa. Former FBI director James
Comey is facing a criminal indictment.
He's been charged with lying to Congress
and obstruction. The case stems from his
2020 testimony on the investigation into
whether Trump or anyone part of his
presidential campaign conspired with
Russia to interfere in the 2016
election. If convicted, Comey could face
up to 5 years in prison. Meanwhile, Meta
is reportedly in early talks to use
Google's Gemini AI models to improve ad
targeting. According to the information,
the move highlights Meta's struggles and
with its own AI and pressure to boost ad
performance. Those setbacks have pushed
the company to consider outside
technology, at least as a stop gap,
while its new AI team work to strengthen
their own models. And Xiaomi has
unveiled a new smartphone designed to
take on Apple's iPhone 17. The new
device called Xiaomi 17 will be offered
in Pro and Pro Max models just like
Apple's and will be $100 cheaper than
the base iPhone 17. It signals Xiaomi
going after Apple in the most direct
fashion, shifting its branding and
timing to measure its products against
Apple. That's your Bloomberg brief.
Lisa,
>> thank you so much. I believe it's called
I Shia. Is that what it's called? I
Xiaomi 17.
>> Well, I just want to know what what I'm
looking up now what the colors are. So,
people are actually interested in the
buy phone.
>> No, I'm not going to buy a new iPhone.
Not for the colors. If people are
excited about the the orange, the blue,
I going to check out the Xiaomi color.
>> The new innovations as we talk about AI.
Up next, weighing inflation risks. I
would want to understand why there was
an upsurge in inflation and what was
driving it and then sort of think about
whether that shock is likely to be
persistent or whether the shock is
likely to be transitory. Monetary policy
shouldn't respond necessarily to
fiscally mandated price changes.
>> Michael Darda of Roth Capital joins us
next with a slightly different take.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
We were trying to break a three-day
losing streak. It doesn't look like
we're doing a very good job of it.
futures turning negative in the S&P, in
the NASDAQ this morning, across the
board really as uh a lot of investors
just take a breather. This would be the
fourth straight day of losses. We
haven't seen anything like that since
the beginning part of August, which
highlights just what a tear we've been
on. It is unusual to see red on the
screen. This really is coming ahead of
the inflation data that we get at 8:30
a.m. Eastern. I'm core PCE, the key
metric for the Fed under surveillance
this morning, weighing those inflation
risks.
My view is not one of enormous economic
pessimism. You know, I don't think the
economy is about to crater. I would want
to understand why there was an upsurge
in inflation and what was driving it and
then sort of think about whether that
shock is likely to be persistent or
whether the shock is likely to be
transitory. Monetary policy shouldn't
respond necessarily to fiscally mandated
price changes because that's not
indicative of changes to the underlying
supply demand balance in the economy.
>> Here's the latest. Investors awaiting
that PCE inflation data due out this
morning for a read on the Fed's Fed's
next move. Michael Darta of Roth Capital
writing this. The Fed appears to be
placing an undue amount of weight on
highly volatile payroll figures while
downplaying forward-looking credit
market and financial indicators. Michael
joins us now. And Michael, thank you so
much for being with us. Why do you think
it is important so important to look at
the fact that we have been above 2% for
more than four years and seem to still
be there even if on a somewhat downward
trajectory?
>> Thanks for having me on. Uh well, today
is likely to mark the 54th month in
which PCE inflation has exceeded the
Fed's 2% target. Uh and if you look at
the last uh round of projections, the
so-called SEP that the Fed put out uh
this past week, they don't envision a
return to 2% inflation until calendar
year 2028. So that would be a 7-year
period of overshooting the inflation
target. And at some point, we have to
ask, you know, what is the point of a
target if you actually don't hit the
target? Well, this is a reason why a
number of people have said maybe the Fed
should pause, including some of the Fed
members who've been speaking recently
saying they don't want to frontload
those rate cuts. I'm thinking of Austin
Goulsby in particular from the Chicago
Fed. Have you heard anything from the
other side of the argument that gives
you pause? This idea that over the past
six weeks or so, there has been a
material shift downward in the labor
market. that you have heard commentary
from consumers saying it's significantly
harder to get a job.
>> You know, look, it it it's certainly
possible. I mean, the Fed's putting a
lot of weight on these weakening payroll
figures and the big downward revisions
that have come with that. Uh but we did
see a similar slowdown, less severe,
less pronounced for sure, but a similar
slowdown in job growth uh going into
last summer. Uh and then the labor
market started to reacelerate. And I
think if you take a step back and you
look at forward-looking financial
indicators, they're really not giving us
the message that the economy is headed
off a cliff here, right? Just the
opposite. Small cap stocks were up 40%
from the April lows until this recent
pullback, you know, which is minor
considering how much risk assets have
gone up. Credit markets in great shape.
And we're really not seeing a lot of
pressure on some of the highfrequency
labor market indicators that you would
typically see if the labor market were
falling apart. Jobless claims usually
rise 20% plus on a 4-week moving average
year-over-year going into a downturn.
You know, that's not unfolding. We saw
the claims figures yesterday actually
pulled back pretty sharply. Uh so you
know I I think we'd have to see a change
up in the disposition of of some of the
higher frequency and financial data that
we're just not seeing now to make the
case for a much more aggressive Fed path
from here. Even just, you know, the Fed
following through on the expectations
that are priced in for more than 100
basis points of rate cuts over the next
year. That seems pretty steep unless the
economy really is in big trouble. If we
do have a government shutdown and it's
longer than some expect and we don't get
the data, what's the Fed going to do?
Are they going to have to rely on other
sources of data like the high frequency
you're talking about?
>> I think so. I mean, then it'll be more
important to rely on financial market
indicators. They're not always right,
but they are forward-looking in real
time. Uh we'll have to rely on, you
know, private sector data. You know, we
still have tracking estimates that are
coming through. And what's kind of
interesting is if you look at the
Atlanta Fed data, it'll be updated again
today after the PCE report, but right
now third quarter real GDP is tracking
above 3%. Even if you look at real final
sales to the private sector tracking
around 27, if the GDP deflator is going
to run at three, you have almost a 6%
handle on nominal GDP. And if the
nominal economy is growing at close to a
6% rate, I don't know how that in any
earthly way accords with a tight
monetary policy or the Fed being
hundreds of basis points above neutral.
Uh as Fed Governor Marin argued
yesterday,
>> and when it comes to inflation, as we
wait for the PCE number at 8:30,
Powell's words were a one-time increase
does not mean all at once. Is he
basically giving individuals an excuse
to look through hot inflation prints?
Yeah, I mean this is a tricky situation
for the Fed in the sense that you know
we did come into the year with you know
this the tariff news that was much more
aggressive than expected you know that
is having an influence you can see it in
in goods price inflation uh which has
accelerated and with sticky services
inflation you know overall inflation has
accelerated at least on a 3-month
annualized basis pretty meaningfully
from from where we were a year ago uh I
think it makes sense to look through
some of that. But I do think also the
Fed has to be mindful about not slow
walking into an accommodative monetary
stance. If the economy hasn't fallen
into recession, uh, and financial
conditions are quite growth supportive,
inflation expectations are 40 to 60
basis points above year ago levels,
that's really not an environment where
the, you know, the Fed should be easing
in a forceful and drastic way. that
could end up creating a situation where
temporary upward pressure on inflation
morphs into, you know, something more
sinister. And this happened back in the
1960s. In 1967,
the Fed responded to a growth scare and
a big drop in the stock market. Uh eased
monetary policy by several hundred basis
points and then catalyzed an
inflationary reaceleration that was just
a complete mess to clean up down the
road. So better to avoid that kind of an
eventuality.
>> Mike, why do you think that the break
even rates and other metrics of
forward-looking inflation in markets
don't seem to reflecting this type of
reality?
>> Yeah, it's a great question. I mean, the
tips market inflation expectations are
above where they were a year ago, but
they're still at levels consistent with
price stability. So, the Fed still seems
to have quite a bit of credibility and
should not take that for granted. You
know, it comes back to this idea of the
Fed's going to overshoot the inflation
target for 7 years and take risks of
overheating the economy now with the
political pressure on the Fed and the
change up in personnel. You know, do we
really want to take a risk that those
expectations reset 50, 100 basis points
higher? If the administration wants low
long-term interest rates, you don't do
that by taking a risk that inflation
expectations jump by 100 basis points.
that has not unfolded. So, that's very
good news. Uh, but the Fed really should
not take those expectations for granted.
>> Mike, we just have about a minute. I'm
wondering if you've ever seen such a
complicated economy where there are so
many different themes laid over each
other making it difficult to decipher
what's signal, what's noise, what's
longasting, what potentially is
temporary.
>> Never. Not in, you know, my 25 years
plus of doing this. This is a completely
unique environment from the the tariffs
to the Federal Reserve to geopolitical
issues. I mean this is you know this is
interesting. So you have to go to the
history books but you know you have to
sort of add libit at the same time and
hopefully we can you know watch an array
of indicators that give a give us a
heads up and look if the if the data
starts to shift then we're happy to
change the the view. If we do start to
see layoffs pick up meaningfully, if
financial conditions, credit markets
start to tighten, by all means, the Fed
should then be in a more aggressive
posture. Uh, but if that's not unfolded,
I do think they need to be careful about
overdoing it.
>> Mike Dart of Roth Capital, great to
catch up with you. Thank you so much for
being with us. And this is what we were
talking about yesterday, Amarie, with
Scott Croner talking about how they're
almost two halves in the stock market in
the economy where you have the tech
sector and tech exposed and then you
have everyone else. Peter Cheer talked
about this, not a K-shaped economy. He
talked about an I, a lowercase I where
you have all that concentration of
wealth just at the dot. That could be
said for the economy as well as the
stock market. Coming up next, we'll
continue talking about this with Mona
Mahajan of Edward Jones, Kellyanne Shaw,
former senior White House trade adviser,
Richmond Fed President Tom Barkin, and
Winnie Caesar of credit sites. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
This market is priced for perfection in
a far from perfect world.
>> There are some consumer-driven parts of
the market that may not be in the best
shape. This doesn't mean you have to run
to the sidelines.
>> We need the market to broaden back out
because we need the economy to broaden
back out.
>> You have to figure out who are the
winners, who are the impostors. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Markets taking a breather
after a runaway meltdown for several
months. New tariff headlines hitting the
tape. Market shrugging it off, although
kind of going nowhere. And key inflation
data 90 minutes away. John is off this
morning on a well-deserved day off.
Emory and myself holding down the Ford
as we look to a stacked day. the idea of
core PCE, that key inflation metric the
Fed does look at coming out at 8:30 a.m.
Eastern, followed by University of
Michigan sentiment survey. Maybe John
took off because of that. Uh later
earlier next week, we see uh Governor
Waller Bostic uh as well as other Fed
speakers coming out. And then of course,
Emory, the government is probably going
to shut down. You put this all together,
it seems as though this market is immune
to Washington DC even as chaos still
reigns. Uncomfortably numb. That's how
Cameron Doss put it this morning. And I
really think that's how the market is
reacting at least overnight from the
latest tariffs coming out of the Trump
administration and also still just
looking for more details. A lot of shock
and awe with the Trump administration
with pronouncements. Then you look at
some of the details like
pharmaceuticals. Well, if you invest in
America, have any sort of investments,
you plan on maybe building some of your
factories out in the United States,
moving some supply chains at home, then
you get an exemption. So then when you
look to the fine details and some of the
the text, you're thinking, "Oh,
potentially this isn't going to be as
bad. Maybe for some others like
furniture, it could be bad." And I think
that's why though overall though the
market is just keep calm, carry on until
we get actually the finer points.
>> Well, and the finer points are going to
come with earnings. And this is what
everyone keeps talking about that right
now in this blank zone before we get
some more details about how the tariffs
are getting absorbed by companies. You
just have to look at the promise, the
hopes and dreams, the profitability and
this idea that we might be coming out of
some something of a downturn from
earlier this year. I'm struck by the
fact that yes, we have seen three down
days consecutively in the market for the
first time since August. We might see a
fourth if some of the losses hold up
today. There is a feeling though this is
just a pause and that there is so much
bullishness and no reason to get bearish
and it's pretty much universal. Well,
this is what Cameron D was talking about
a meltup. The fact that when you look at
forward month EPS estimates, they're
making new highs when you look at those
12-month estimates and that is why the
market just continues to almost have
FOMO and we don't want to lose out on
this race. But doesn't it give you pause
a little bit of a this morning when
David Einhorn is coming out and saying
these are really really big numbers.
This is a ton of money and I'm not quite
sure it makes sense.
>> Everyone's saying the same thing. Sam
Alman of Open Eye is saying the same
thing and saying look this is what he's
behind some of the spending.
>> He's behind some of the spending and
he's saying that we should keep doing it
because guess what? This is how we build
things. At the same time they're going
to be big losers. Right now there are
not really that many big losers although
there is a softness to the market.
futures lower pretty much across the
board but just tepidly so after three
straight days of losses which has been
uh the greatest streak going back to
August 21st S&P futures basically flat
here uh you are seeing a little bit of
dollar strength emerge over the past
couple of days and continuing that today
the past two days have been the greatest
strengthening we've seen in the dollar
versus the euro going back to July just
showing how much of a weakening trend
the dollar has been and we do see yields
just marginally higher ahead of that
core PCE data A key question of how much
the Fed is going to be limited by
inflation that just is stubbornly above
that 2% target. Coming up this hour,
we've got Mona Mahajan of Edward Jones
as Wall Street looks to snap a three-day
losing streak. Former White House trade
adviser Kelly Shaw and Trump's latest
tariff threat and Richmond Fed President
Tom Barkin as a central bank shows signs
of division among some confusing
economic data. We begin this hour with
stocks finding a bit of firmer footing
as investors eye of fresh inflation
print. Mona Mahajan of Edward Jones
writing this. Markets are likely to be
volatile around major growth, labor
market, and inflation releases in coming
months as they look to understand if the
data flow is supporting the case for
further cuts. Mona joins us for more.
Mona, great to see you. Thank you so
much for being with us. I want to start
with that. Is the market much more
focused on Fed policy than it is
anything else coming out of Washington
DC?
>> Yeah, thanks Lisa. Look, I think there
is a focus on the Fed. Uh, you know, the
old adage goes, we don't fight the Fed.
And this market has taken that to heart.
We are up nearly 33% since the April 8th
lows almost in a straight line higher.
You know, from our perspective, we are
in this period. We're heading towards a
seasonally weaker October. There is a
bit of void in the data. And by the way,
yes, we have headlines looming around a
government shutdown next week. Um, all
that being said, we kind of take it back
to the fundamentals. And, you know, we
saw just yesterday a 3.8% 8% GDP print
for the second quarter. Atlanta Fed GDP
now is pointing to 3.3%. And really
what's uh underlying that or
underpinning that is a solid consumer.
Now, as we head to the back half of the
year, we're going to be watching that
labor market closely. Uh is there
further signs of deterioration or have
we seen the worst already? But as we
head to 2026, you know, we are in an
environment where we will probably be
seeing lower interest rates from the
Fed. a tax bill is kicking in that could
provide some fiscal stimulus. And by the
way, we have this secular story in AI
and technology that continues to
deliver. So, uh, we don't yet see this
equity market completely rolling over.
Could we pause, stall, digest some of
these gains? Absolutely. U, but could
that provide some opportunities? Yes. As
well, can this market, can these
investors have their cake and eat it
too? I'm thinking about what Michael
Dardo was talking about uh just moments
ago from Roth Capital and this idea that
uh the Fed is cutting. Given that you
see stocks at all-time highs, you see
credit spreads at really narrow levels.
You don't see a lot of stress and
potentially you see a lot of
acceleration on the heels of some of
this spending. At what point do further
Fed cuts support market valuations but
also support inflation? Yeah, it's a
fair point and look, I think Jerome
Powell was very clear to tell us in the
last meeting that this is an insurance
cut. He's doing some risk management and
historically when you think about
insurance cuts, they tend to be three or
four cuts in the cycle. Um, clearly, you
know, Powell and team perhaps want to
get to a more neutral rate. Uh, and if
you think about the history as well, uh,
the Fed likes to be about 1 percentage
point above inflation rates. So if
inflation we think lands in this 2 2
1/2% range perhaps a Fed funds rate at 3
three and a half% neutral does make
sense here and if they get there in a
gradual way uh that gives them that
gives them some flexibility as well in
case the economy moves higher or lower
from there. So I I do think that drone
Powell wants to take out this insurance
rate cutting cycle. He doesn't want to
be overly aggressive and he's very
mindful of the inflation picture as
well. Well, what if we get more prints
like we did yesterday with jobless
claims falling to the lowest level since
mid July? Can they continue to take
these insurance cuts?
>> Yeah, look, I think they're watching the
labor market closely. Uh they understand
the dynamic that's going on. There are
uh it's a lower supply and a lower
demand of labor overall. So, we will
probably see lower job gains going
forward. Uh all that being said, they
are mindful that labor market can be the
last indicator and it can move rapidly
lower. And so I think that's why drone
pow is on alert that this labor market
should not move into a weaker state that
uh could actually risk this economic
growth that we're seeing. So I do think
jobless claims are supportive of labor
market but we'll have to really watch
that unemployment rate. We'll have to
really watch uh what's going on
underneath the surface in terms of job
openings, layoffs in particular, and
that unemployment uh figure moving
higher. So a a set of of data ahead of
us. Jobless claims though I think do
make the or do point to the picture of
well perhaps we can go at a more gradual
pace.
>> Mon, I'd love to just also get your
thoughts on the tariff induced potential
for inflation given the fact that
overnight we had more tariff
announcements from this administration.
The market seems to be shrugging it off.
Are late latest tariff announcements
going to be a cause of concern for this
Fed?
Yeah, you know, I think certainly um
earlier this year the market was very
concerned that tariffs would cause
inflation to perhaps even spike back to
some of the levels we saw postcoid where
we were close to 8 9%. There were
definitely um projections of getting
back to 4 to 5%. We have seen none of
that come through. In fact, inflation
while it is elevated above the Fed's 2%
target has remained in that 2 and 1/2 to
3 and 1/2 type uh range. And part of
that is because we know the inflation
basket is of course especially on CPI
about twothirds of it is services
one-third is goods and yes we are
starting to see goods inflation rise but
we also know a lot of corporations have
absorbed the costs put tariff pressures
put those pressures back on their supply
chain or diversified their supply chain
and some has been passed to the consumer
but overall the inflation picture we
think has remained contained and I think
the market is taking that as a positive
sign even as they're hearing hearing
more tariff news. They are projecting
perhaps uh yes onethirds of the goods
basket may be slightly at risk but the
two/3s that is services has been a
little bit more contained and has
actually started to show signs of of
actually cooling a bit. And so if that
story plays out over the next 3 to 6
months, you could actually see the
inflation picture moderate. And we know
over time tariffs hopefully are a
one-time price increase and then we'll
see a stabilization especially as that
year-over-year projection uh comes into
play,
>> which is a reason why the Fed is
possibly going to look through any
near-term bumps. Simona, before uh we
let you get on with your day, what will
you do if we don't get a labor market
report next Friday because of a
government shutdown?
>> Yeah, uh it is a real risk and I think
um we will have to use the data that
we're seeing in real time. We talked
about weekly jobless claims figures. Uh
we'll also be h having to look at the
other data holistically. We have an
Atlanta Fed GDP now out there. Um and
hopefully uh this government shutdown
will not be a prolonged one. I am
hopeful that both sides can come to a
resolution. Uh but the data risk is a
real one, but not one that can
meaningfully derail the broader story
that we're seeing in the e economy and
the market.
>> Mona Mahajin of Edward Jones, thank you
so much. Have a wonderful weekend as we
uh parse through all of these details
and headlines. It's just sort of amazing
how uh we are dealing with so many
different issues in Washington DC. A
lack of clarity trying to understand it
could increase prices here or there.
CFOs are getting big headaches. People
in the market have confidence they can
figure it out and they don't have to
care about it.
>> The only certainty is that there'll be
continuous uncertainty out of
Washington. And I think it's going to be
fascinating if we do have a extended
shutdown as we did in 2019. It was some
35 days, the longest in history under
the Trump administration. What happens
to the economic data? They need to
decide that someone is deemed essential
at the Bureau of Labor Statistics to
literally put out the release because if
not, we're not going to have the
economic damage. The market's not. And
then, of course, the Federal Reserve.
>> Yeah. And if we're relying on jobless
claims that we got yesterday, it's not
exactly indicating a drastic need for
accommodation. Right now, let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg brief on
it. Dehyra,
>> hi Lisa. Google is asking the US Supreme
Court to pause a ruling that would force
it to overhaul its App Store policies.
Google warned in a filing that without a
delay, the company and its Android
ecosystem will suffer irreparable harm.
The move stems from its longunning
antitrust fight with Fortnite maker Epic
Games. Meanwhile, the Trump
administration is weighing a plan to
reduce reliance on foreignade
semiconductors. The Wall Street Journal
reporting that the plan would require
companies to eventually match imported
chip volume with domestic production or
face tariffs. Commerce Secretary Howard
Lutnik has reportedly discussed the idea
with industry executives. And as you and
Marie have been discussing all morning,
hedge hedge fund, excuse me, hedge fund
manager David Einhorn is issuing caution
on the massive waves of recent AI
spending from big tech. The Greenlight
Capital founder said the trillion dollar
buildout by companies like Apple, Meta,
and OpenAI is so extreme that the
eventual returns are highly uncertain,
going as far to say that the high
spending may destroy vast amounts of
capital. Dr. Bloomberg Reef Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Yahara. Up next,
President Trump's tariff agenda.
>> We're doing well because of tariffs.
We're doing unbelievable. We're making
more money than we ever have made. We're
going to take some of that tariff money
that we made. We're going to give it to
our farmers.
>> Former White House senior trade adviser
Kellyanne Shaw joins us next. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.
[Music]
Coming into a busy day of headlines from
Washington DC. A relatively quiet day
except for in markets. We are all
focused on what we get from core PCE out
at 8:30 a.m. Eastern about uh an hour
and 15 minutes. futures going nowhere
right now. 663 uh 6663
on S&P uh basically flat. NASDAQ futures
lower just a touch. Russell 2000 down
210 of a percent ahead of that key
inflation print under surveillance this
morning. President Trump's tariff
agenda.
>> We're doing well because of because of
tariffs. We're doing unbelievable. We're
making more money than we ever have
made. We're going to take some of that
tariff money that we made. We're going
to give it to our farmers who are for a
little while going to be hurt until it
kicks in. The tariffs kick in to their
benefit.
>> Here's the latest. President Donald
Trump announcing new industry specific
tariffs targeting pharmaceuticals,
kitchen cabinets and bathroom vanities,
upholstered furniture, and heavy trucks.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now.
Tyler, what details do we know about
these tariffs?
>> Yeah, Lisa. Well, it's hard to know
where to start when it comes to
pharmaceuticals. It does appear that
investors at least are betting that any
sort of exemptions are going to soften
the blow. And that's because President
Trump said that if you are manufacturing
in the US or have plans to break ground
in the US, there will be an exemption.
And we know that many of these drug
makers already have manufacturing plants
here. Uh, also probably worth mentioning
that the EU had confirmed earlier this
morning that the US EU trade deal will
ultimately shield it from this higher
100% tariff and we're going to see that
15% cap remain in place. Still, our
analyst estimates that this could hit
about $220 billion worth of US
pharmaceutical imports. When it comes to
the other tariffs, these were of course
also widely expected. The one trend line
that we can pull from all of this is
that they're all going to go into effect
on October 1st. It's also going to be
worth mentioning here that these were
widely expected. We knew that these
section 232 investigations had already
been implemented, that the
administration was looking into what
they think are these key industries,
particularly when it comes to national
security concerns. I will quickly add
that when it comes to those heavy truck
tariffs, this is an industry that's
already been squeezed by the steel and
aluminum tariffs. So, we're going to be
looking for any sort of carveout there
as well. But, uh, Lisa and Amory, you
both were talking about this this
morning. Perhaps we're getting a little
bit of a glimpse into the timeline here
because these section 232 tariffs are
considered to be a more durable legal
basis and the administration is
currently gearing up for oral arguments
in front of the Supreme Court on
November 5th. We're getting closer to
that date when it comes to the court
challenge against the more broad-based
tariffs enacted under AIPA.
>> Tyler Kendall, thank you so much uh for
that update. This person is the person
I've been waiting to hear from all
morning. Former White House senior trade
adviser Kellyanne Shaw, who joins us
now. Kellyanne, thank you so much for
being here. So what just happened?
>> Right. So a lot um is the high level
point. Right. So we have had 12 ongoing
section 232 investigations and the
president announced two more earlier
this week into robotics and med devices.
So the three that he seems to have
announced last night, so on lumber, on
pharmaceutical products, um and um the
other one are really just like clearing
the queue. So, right now he was under a
deadline to get the lumber and timber
232 out. Um, he has a 90-day clock from
when that report went from commerce to
the White House. And we had been hearing
that that report had gone to the White
House technically either at the end of
June or the beginning of July. So, my
assumption is that when they sat down to
decide on the final measures and he
announced those for furniture products
and upholstered furniture, um, that they
also considered these other ones on top
of that. So we saw the trucks and the
pharmaceutical ones get announced as
well. So a lot coming out at once, but
these are things that are really about
clearing the queue.
>> How much is this also about the
administration preparing for AIPA to
potentially be struck down in the courts
so that they have a backup to make sure
that they still have tariffs in place
for a number of sectors?
>> So I I think that's a good question. Um,
but I really question the merits of
using a 232 strategy to make up for a
potential loss of AIPA tariffs in part
because they're product by product and
sector by sector, whereas the
president's current tariffs are really
country by country. And so I think it
creates this very messy patchwork. So we
obviously don't know what the
administration's backup plan is other
than they have one if they do lose. Um,
but I would suspect that it looks
something more like a 301 strategy
rather than a 232 strategy, but it could
be part of that as well. When you look
at the tariffs that were announced last
night, pharmaceuticals pretty much give
this nod of like if you're still
investing in America, put something in
the United States, you're going to get
an exemption. Is that how you read it?
So pretty much is anyone going to be
tariffed in terms of pharmaceutical
space?
>> So this is really the big surprise for
me. I was not expecting to see the
pharma announcement today in part
because I did not get the sense that the
administration had quite figured out
this investment credit model. So this is
the model that he's talked about both in
terms of pharma as well as for
semiconductors.
Um so trucks again were ready for some
time. I think that the furniture one was
obviously uh ready for some time. But
there's a real question as to how this
pharmaceutical one is going to operate
in practice. And what about producers
who are already manufacturing in the
United States but import some of their
supply? Do they get a tariff credit as
well? It doesn't seem like it from that
tweet,
>> which is interesting because the
market's viewing this is a positive.
It's actually is not the worst case
scenario for the pharmaceuticals.
They're almost trading as though this is
a relief. Do you think that that is
validated by the actual framework?
>> Well, it does seem like generics are
going to be carved out. So for some
pharmaceutical producers, this is a real
windfall. This is a boon. I I think when
it comes to the branded pharmaceutical
products, the devil's going to be in the
details and we're not really going to
know until we see that final measure,
that proclamation, but we could also see
this extended a bit further. Meaning,
we've got this announcement of 100%
tariff unless you're building in
America. What does it mean to build?
Commerce may have to issue regulations.
So, that might take a few more months
before we actually see the final result.
There's so many details and there are so
many processes that have to go into a
place. Not to even mention just
collecting these tariffs and coming up
with a way to do so and what the
parameters are to get this all done by
October 1st seems like a tall task. Do
you think it's feasible to get this all
done and put into effect in such a short
turnaround? Well, deadlines can move
mountains when it comes to Washington.
So, there's certainly a chance. But what
what I would say is for trucks, you got
this 25% across the board tariff for
finished trucks. We'll see what they do
with parts, which um the president
didn't announce. For lumber, timber,
furniture, it seems pretty clear what
they're going to do. I think the
pharmaceutical one is going to take a
bit longer for them to really um figure
out how to find the way forward on that.
>> Are there any other 232s we should be
looking out for or is he done?
>> The president is never done when it
comes to tariffs. You know, certainly
the semiconductor one is one that's been
on the books for a while. Um the
president has announced it's going to be
two weeks, two weeks, two weeks. Um, so
that actually could be two weeks from
now. Um, I also think critical minerals
is one that is coming up. We've heard
that they've made significant progress
on the drone one as well. So there's a
few more and then a bunch in the hopper.
And how are you thinking about AIPA?
>> So we'll have to see what the court
does. I think that everyone's waiting
for this final decision from the Supreme
Court, but what's clear is the
president's still relying on AIPA for
his tariff policy, like the tariffs on
Brazil, potentially others like Russian
oil tariffs we could continue to see. So
I I don't think the administration's
done using AIPA.
>> There's a bit of a contradiction here. A
lot of the executives and the investors
who we have on the show talk about how
there's a greater degree of certainty
that we've seen peak uncertainty uh and
companies have a greater sense of what
the framework of tariffs actually is. Do
you think that that's appropriate given
that the president in your words is
never done and that we are seeing new
proposals added on top of the ones that
already have been announced? Well, I I
think it's a matter of degree and
comparison. So, we have a lot more
certainty than we did say back in April
and May where we really didn't know what
the tariff rates were going to be on
basically any product from any country.
Right. This was this mass negotiation. I
told you to grab it here. Yes. Exactly.
So, so now we're starting to see this
clearing of we have at least a 10 to 15%
baseline for all countries. For some
countries with elevated tariffs, those
rates could come down. And then you've
got sectoral tariffs where those rates
are going to go up. So again, depending
on the the uh line of business you're
in, the products you're importing, there
could be big variations and big swings,
but overall the landscape does look much
more clear. I'm guessing you don't sleep
much and that you get a lot of calls
from a lot of clients saying, "What is
going on?" What's their biggest concern
right now? How high is their concern
level about the uncertainty of what's to
come and how to manage around it? I I
think there's some uncertainty with the
court case and what that might mean and
whether that means that there would be
other types of tariff measures, what
those would look like, the legal
authority. I think there's some
uncertainty in terms of the USChina
relationship, which is the big elephant
in the room. We don't totally know how
that's going to go and unfold. And then
for countries where we have these huge
tariffs like Brazil and India, we could
see big swings there. But I but I think
for companies that are largely
transatlantic and some of these other
more stable trading relationships um
they're they're feeling less of that.
>> Let's end on China because you're at the
table for the phase one trade deal. What
does the administration want to get out
of this right now?
>> So right now we're in a tariff truce. Um
it's not clear how far negotiations are
going to go. I don't think there's an
expectation of a broad phase 2
agreement. So, it's really about
managing the relationship, figuring out
where we can trade, taking independent
measures where we're not going to trade,
which is largely going to be sensitive
supply chains. And I think you heard
from Besson earlier this week, it's
about identifying mutual
vulnerabilities. China clearly has a
chokeold on the US when it comes to rare
earths and rare earth magnets. Um, the
US is identifying aircraft engines and
chemicals as potential choke holds on
China. So, this is a dynamic
relationship. I think it's more about
maintaining the truth than making
progress, but we'll have to see where
this goes.
>> Former White House senior trade adviser
Kellyanne Shaw, thank you so much. We
could spend an hour with you trying to
figure out what's going on and it's very
helpful uh to understand what the moving
parts are. It's a process as you've said
many times before.
>> It feels like treading water though when
it comes to the US China relationship.
This basically figuring out who has what
leverage and where and not wanting to
poke too far.
>> Yeah. And it's going to be a tip for tat
that will go on for longer rather than
uh resume in short order. Coming up
next, Richmond Fed President Tom Barkin
as a central bank shows signs of
division. Plus, Danny Burgerer with your
morning movers.
[Music]
Trying to end the week on a high note.
Not necessarily uh just with mood, but
also with futures. futures trying to
climb into the positive area at least
for the S&P. For the Russell and NASDAQ
futures are lower, but back from some of
the earlier losses. Russell 2000 lower
two ten of a percent because of the
story in the bond space. Do we see a
surprise to the upside and inflation
that ties the Fed's hands when it comes
to how much they can cut rates? Two
hours away from the cash open, here are
your morning movers with Danny Ber.
Danny,
>> hey Lisa. The winners in today's trade
are the domestic chip manufacturers with
a Wall Street Journal story saying that
the Trump administration plans to press
companies and unveil a plan that would
force them or at least encourage them to
buy more chips from Intel Global
Foundaries, those made in the US. You
can see the rally underway for both
those up 4.3% for Intel. Global
Foundaries goes up 10 and a half%. A
similar story unfolding in pharma. You
were talking about this uh just moments
ago. this idea that you would get 100%
tariffs from the Trump administration
unless on patented drugs unless you are
building factories in the US. So we've
seen plans from Eli Liy for example and
Merc to build those factories in the US.
So Eli Liy Mercy, all of those shares
moving higher by around 1% this morning.
Meanwhile, Costco, they reported uh
earnings after the bell yesterday.
You're looking at a two-day chart of
Costco for some reason in the morning
straight. It is slightly higher. uh they
beat on basically all the metrics. There
is some nerves around Costco when it
comes to things like tariffs. They did
say they were going to take steps to try
to mitigate that. They would consolidate
some of their purchases and try to look
for locally sourced uh inventory. Uh but
they did say that they're going to
concentrate their holiday season on more
value and essential oriented products.
Just giving you a taste of where the
consumer stands. Lisa,
>> the choiceful consumer as we keep
hearing about. Danny, thank you so much
for that. Honorator this morning,
President Trump announcing new tariffs
on pharmaceuticals, heavy trucks, and
furniture imports effective October 1st.
Companies would see 100% levies on
patitin drugs unless, and there's a
pretty big unless, they are building a
manufacturing plant in the US.
Meanwhile, President Trump signing an
executive order declaring the plan for
American investors to buy Tik Tok's US
operations um complies with national
security requirements. officials setting
up a potential value for the social
media app at 14 billion dollars. Amry,
it seems like the president's really
busy right now between brokering a deal
with Tik Tok and potentially putting new
tariffs on. What I'm struck by is that
all of these things are working at the
same time that the Supreme Court is
potentially going to overrule the uh
AIPA tariffs. What do you think the
market's reaction would be to that?
Well, this is a good question because
this also could be why Trump is coming
out with more of these sectoral tariffs.
And then to Kelly's point, he might have
to do 301's as well, not just 232s.
Because what if the court does say that
using AIPA is illegal? What happens to
all these billions of dollars the
administration is touting that's coming
in to potentially bring the deficit
down? I think the market then is going
to question the credibility of all the
policies. If this policy that all these
negotiations with all these countries
are surrounding upon is illegal, then
what else potentially is illegal and
might never actually come to fruition?
And from a market perspective, the idea
of not getting the $4 trillion of
revenue over 10 years would really
change the backdrop for long end of the
yield curve. The idea that yields have
rallied on the heels of that potential
uh income. What happens if that gets
removed or has to get paid back?
>> Well, this is the Treasury Secretary's
entire point as well. this is impacting
even current negotiations as well and
it's going to impact this money that's
being brought into the United States to
your point what it's doing to the bond
market and then I think the market just
takes a step back and just looks at
saying now I have real policy
uncertainty because every single policy
that comes out do I just feel numb and
look through it is it even going to
happen or do I need to actually take it
as a tangible risk
>> adding to policy uncertainty Dallas Fed
President Lori Logan saying the central
bank should replace its benchmark
federal funds rate. Logan arguing the
Fed funds target is outdated and
suggested the TGCR,
a more widely used market bellweather
that she says could offer the most
benefits. A fascinating story that a lot
of market participants have been arguing
for for a long time. The idea of a
triparty uh collateral system, that
being something that is more accurate
and has a much higher degree of volume
on any given day. Sticking with the Fed,
we are just under an hour away from
fresh inflation data. Bloomberg's
Michael McKe joins us from Washington
with a very special guest. Mike, I'll
throw it to you.
>> Well, thank you very much. Joining us
this morning, Richmond Fed President Tom
Barkin here on Bloomberg television and
radio worldwide. And uh on radio they
can't see it, but on television people
could see you have a bit of a bandage on
your head. You just had a one of those
uh older people's kind of uh operations.
>> Yeah, there's no truth that it was what
happened in the last meeting.
All right. Um, speaking of the last
meeting, we came out of that believing
that or at least Wall Street, uh, that
you're going to cut rates again in
October and maybe in December. But since
then, we've gotten some numbers that
show GDP is hotter, inflation is still
running hot, and the jobless claims
numbers suggest companies aren't laying
anybody off. So, uh, should we have less
confidence in the path going forward?
Well, I don't think you can mark
tomarket the next meeting every week,
even though that's what the markets do.
I mean, let's let's see what happens on
the unemployment side. We'll get some
important data in a a couple minutes
here um on the inflation side and and I
think we'll get there when we get there.
>> Well, the majority seem to believe, at
least according to what the chairman
tells us, that inflation's going to be a
one-time rise in the price level. And
overnight we got a bunch of new tariffs
as you just saw on a lot of different
things from the president. How much
confidence do you have in any kind of
inflation forecast at this point?
>> Not much. I mean what I what I
definitely see happening is there are
cost increases that suppliers want to
pass on. There's no question about that.
And tariffs are a big part of it. But
you could put health insurance and other
places other costs in there too. Um but
those costs are going to attempted to
get passed on to a consumer who's
frankly exhausted of price increases.
And so um you know we're seeing a lot of
trading down, you know, branded to
private label kind of choices, but we're
also seeing people trade off. And it
wouldn't surprise me at all if people
who are forced to accept certain price
increases, therefore don't buy something
else on the other side. And that's your
classic relative price uh trade-off. And
that may mean that you won't see as much
broad-based inflationary impact as you'd
see, you know, price increases on
particular items. We'll see.
>> And yet you get PCE in an hour and
basically you've already calculated the
numbers. Uh inflation's not moving in
the right direction. So can you still
justify or how long can you justify
cutting rates in that environment?
>> Well, we have inflation moving in the
wrong direction. Unfortunately, we also
have unemployment moving in the wrong
direction. And that was the backdrop of
the last meeting. You have to ask
yourself, you know, how are the risks uh
still the same as you saw them uh 2 3 4
months earlier when you had unemployment
in the right direction and inflation in
the wrong direction. Um you know, my
overall thesis though is that while it's
not, you know, ticking in the right
place, the downside's relatively
limited. I see the inflation downside is
limited by this customer uh push back
that I just talked about. also
productivity which I think is um we're
seeing that at at real scale and so that
means there's less pressure to pass
costs on and then on the unemployment
side obviously labor supply is dropping
as the same time as labor demand and
that's keeping the unemployment rate uh
you know relatively balanced and that's
the combination of immigration and um
revocation of temporary status also you
know our generation you know Mike which
is leaving the workforce I mean you're
seeing a million three more people over
65 out of the workforce every year. And
so you've got less labor demand, low
hiring, low firing environment, but
you've also got less labor supply. And
that probably means that the
unemployment rate increases are going to
be relatively limited.
>> Well, at least you and I are still
employed as of today.
>> As well, we'll see how this interview
goes from.
>> You suggested that companies in your
district are beginning to feel a little
bit better or at least some of the
uncertainty has uh come off of uh their
planning and their thinking. Uh are
these kind of big new tariffs that we
got today just going to change that
mind? Has this the idea that ongoing
tariffs and ongoing disruption are going
to be part of this administration and
economy? Is that in their planning?
>> Well, I've been describing it as a fog
that's created uncertainty and I I
definitely think in the context of the
last couple months, the fog has started
to lift. Um businesses don't know
exactly what the tariff will be on their
sector necessarily, but they kind of
have a sense of the range. people aren't
really following the news every day, you
know, the same way they were back in
April. And a lot of businesses I talked
to say, look, I've just got to do
something, you know, I've gota I've got
to take action. I can't be on the
sidelines forever. So, I am seeing
people more uh in the game. Now, if
you're in a particular sector where you
see a new announcement, of course,
that's going to set you back. And so, um
you know, what I say about businesses in
general is not true of businesses in
every sector. And so there are sectors
with a lot more clarity and sectors with
a lot less clarity and and that's I
think just going to be part of the game
here. The
>> this morning we had an investor on who
basically said markets are rising
because of the idea that a year from now
rates will be substantially lower. Is
that the right way to look at it, the
wrong way to look at it?
>> Oh, I wouldn't know how to think about,
you know, how markets ought to rise or
not rise. I I mean we are very much
focused on trying to land the plane here
in balancing inflation, unemployment.
Um, as I said, I think both of them have
ticked in the wrong direction, but on
the other hand, the downside is limited
and we're just going to have to, you
know, adjust our stance as we learn
more.
>> Well, where's your dot? What are you
thinking in terms of uh the next couple
of meetings and then for 2026? Well, I
really like the DOT process for me
because um it's a uh it forces real uh
integration of your uh thinking um in
terms of where you think the economy is
going, where you think uh policy is
going, but I don't have it as a forecast
prediction. It's not, you know,
something I like to talk about uh
publicly because it adjusts. You know,
we do mark that dot to market as things
go. So, um, you know, every meeting for
me is one where I want to stop and look
at the balance between how we're doing
on the inflation side and the
unemployment side and make the right
decision.
>> Well, the story around the Fed this week
has been, um, shall we say, the debate
over where the neutral rate is? Where do
you think it is and how fast would you
want to get there?
Well, um, you know, I've seen a lot of
the stuff that's been in the press and
we're we're studying that and, you know,
I always try to understand all arguments
and and figure out how to integrate them
into my thinking. I'd point you to the
Richmond Fed um, neutral rate, uh, the
lubricatthist model. Um, it takes a lot
of signal from what you see in the real
economy. And in the real economy, um,
over the last couple years, what you've
seen is interest rate, I mean, uh,
interest rates go up, uh, and the
economy stay relatively healthy. Um and
so that model doesn't take a lot of
doesn't has a relatively high uh neutral
rate because um it takes a lot of signal
from the current environment. Now things
can change. Um but that's where the
Richmond, you know, Fed model is right
now. And I'd point you to that.
>> What what number do they have? Where are
you?
>> It moves around uh based on what's
happening in the economy.
>> Well, uh that gets to the next question
is Chairman Powell saying that you
really don't want to target the neutral
rate because it moves around. uh also
saying that for any voter to uh really
move things around, you have to be
incredibly persuasive. Do you find
Steven Myron's arguments persuasive?
>> Well, I'm looking forward to digging
into them uh with my team and I like
every voice in the room. Um and every
argument in the room, you know, that's
what we do as a discipline as we sit
down and try to take those arguments
apart and figure out which parts of them
really resonate with the way we think
about things and and which parts don't.
We're looking forward to doing that. is
a
>> um on the on the neutral rate uh you
know in general I just want to agree
it's not that useful as a operational
tool um that the models out there even
the one that I talked about have a
confidence interval of about 200 basis
points and so you could say it's three
which is around the SCP median and you
could say it's three and a half or two
and a half but if you add a 200 basis
point range to it you say that's not
that helpful for making operational
decisions on monetary policy what is
more helpful and The reason I I favor
the model we've got in Richmond is how
are you seeing the economy re react real
time to the level of rates you've got in
the market. And if you see it weakening,
that's a signal that maybe you've got it
too high. If you see it relatively
strong, that's a signal the other way.
>> Lori Logan went to Richmond to uh
announce her idea of changing the
operational rate for the Fed. What do
you think of that?
>> Well, I appreciate Lori making the trip.
We had a balance sheet conference
yesterday that was a very well attended
and I thought lots of thoughtful papers
including hers and I thought she made an
extremely articulate well-reasoned
argument and I'm looking forward to
digging into it further.
>> You anticipate the Fed making a change?
>> Oh, I don't know.
>> Uh the Supreme Court if it allows the
president to fire Lisa Cook. What does
that mean for the Fed?
>> Well, the judicial processes and
political processes will operate however
they operate. Um what I do every day is
show up and try to um uh argue for the
best monetary policy we can and make the
case as you said in a persuasive way uh
to my colleagues and that's what I'm
going to continue to do.
>> Well, let's leave it with this. Uh what
is the best monetary policy right now?
Continued rate cuts or do you not know
at this point?
>> I think you have to be very adaptive to
what's playing out here. The the world
I've described is one where um the labor
market is weakening. It's a low hiring
environment, but the labor supply is
also short. You have to be very
attentive to that balance because it
could get out of balance, right? Um
similarly on the inflation side, you do
have these cost pressures and four and a
half years of inflation over target. On
the other hand, you're not seeing that
show up and spikes in inflation in the
real-time numbers. We are seeing what
seems to be a productivity boom. And so
I think you have to be very attentive to
um how little we know about how each of
our mandate variables is going to play
out. So, you know, I I feel like very
adaptive is the way to think about it as
oo and that's part of why I'm not being
prescriptive into well, it's this many
cuts over this period of time because I
I think we're going to see uh and learn
a lot as we go here.
>> Tom Barkin, thank you very much for
coming up uh to Washington and joining
us this morning here on Bloomberg. We're
going to send it back to you.
>> Bloomberg's Michael McKe, thank you so
much. Wonderful interview with Tom
Barkin, the head of the Richmond Fed
with a very adaptive posture. Right now,
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
Bloomer brief with Yahihira on it.
Yahihira.
>> Hi, Lisa. European diplomats warned the
Kremlin that NATO is ready to shoot down
any Russian fighter jets that violate
their airspace. Sources telling us here
at Bloomberg that British, French, and
German envoys issued the warning in a
closed dooror meeting with in Moscow.
The move comes after three Russian
fighter jets entered Estonian airspace
last week, a claim Russia denies.
Meanwhile, Boeing shares are slightly
higher in the pre-market, up three
quarters of a percent after the plane
maker landed one of its biggest deals of
the year. Turkish Airlines has agreed to
buy as many as 225 Boeing jets in a deal
that could exceed $22 billion. The
accord followed the bilateral meeting
between Turkish President Reep Taib
Erdogan and President Donald Trump.
And a Chicago court has ruled in favor
of United Airlines over valuable gate
space at the city's O'Hara International
Airport. United's rival American
Airlines had requested to block United
from expanding at the airport, which is
the only dual hub facility in the
country. The judge ruled that American
failed to show it would suffer harm from
the reallocation of gates. That's
Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yahara, but are they
going to upgrade O'Hara? I'm sorry. I
actually feel very strongly about this
having spent a lot of time in Chicago.
>> This is personal.
>> It always ends up being a little bit
personal. Up next, weighing risks to the
economy.
>> My view is not one of enormous economic
pessimism. You know, I don't think the
economy is about to crater. I don't
think the labor market's about to fall
off a cliff. However, the neutral rate
is drifting down.
>> Winnie Caesar of Credit Sites joining us
next. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
feeling a little more positive as we get
closer to the open. Right now we are uh
looking at a bit of gains across the
board except for the Russell 2000 still
pegged to this potential inflation print
that we get in about 45 minutes time.
elsewhere just seeing some of the
session highs even with some of the
concerns out there from tariffs to
economic uh sluggishness under
surveillance this morning weighing risks
to the economy.
>> My view is not one of enormous economic
pessimism. You know, I don't think the
economy is about to crater. I don't
think the labor market's about to fall
off a cliff. However, the neutral rate
is drifting down and as a result of
that, it's incumbent upon policy to
adjust in response. And the longer that
policy stays excess excessively
restrictive, the greater the risks to
the downside for the economy.
>> Here's the latest. Fed Governor Myin
highlighting risks to the economy if the
Fed doesn't move quickly to cut rates.
With less than an hour until that core
PCE print is released, Winnie Caesar of
Credit Sites writes the following. If
payrolls continue to come in around
recent levels, we see the US
unemployment rate rising to 4 and a.5%
by year end, which would mark the
highest level expand since 2017. Winnie
joins us now. Winnie, great to see you.
Thank you for being with us. There are
these two risks to the economy right
now. A potential reaceleration that
could prompt inflation to run hot or
some sort of deterioration which has a
lot of people concerned as they look at
the labor market and some of the recent
payrolls reports. You're on the more
cautious side about the economy. Why?
>> Good morning, Alisa. But we are on the
more cautious side and I think that a
lot of it comes down to seeing that the
consumer feels like they are running out
of steam while at the same time
corporations, small businesses are
facing a wide mix of pressures that are
going to make margin expansion gains
much harder to come by and probably put
incremental pressure on margins. And
when we put those things together, it
likely will lead to continued softness
in the labor market and continued
softness in consumer spending and and
expectations. And that's where you get
into a really challenging cycle overall.
>> Well, this is a challenging cycle
because some people are spending and
some people aren't. And the people who
can spend are the ones propping up the
spending reports that we're probably
going to get in about 40 minutes time.
At the same time that you get CarMax
reporting earnings and highlighting a
deteriorating credit backdrop for lower
income individuals and people looking to
buy cars, why are you more focused on
the CarMaxes of the world and less on
the highf flyers, the luxury flyers, say
United?
>> Yeah, that's a great point and that
bifurcation in terms of the type of
consumer, the type of consumer spending
has really been something that we've
been focused on for many, many years.
But I think the big takeaway is if we
are continuing to get contraction in
some of the lower income middle tier
consumers, there is the risk that that
continues to kind of leak up the income
spectrum. And at the same time, as we're
thinking about how companies are going
to be managing margins, we do have some
concerns about some of those higher
income jobs being at risk. And then when
you factor in also some of the relative
softness that we've seen in the housing
market as of late, those mix of factors
make us a little bit more cautious on
the consumer as a whole relative to
those segments of consumer that have
been weaker or stronger.
>> But Winnie, looking at the unemployment
rate, 4.5%. How difficult might it
actually get to ticking up to that given
the fact that there is also a supply
issue when it comes to labor market, the
fact that it's dwindling?
Yeah, this is a great point. And when
you run the math, if we had a labor
participation rate that currently was
the same as the beginning of the year,
it's fallen over the course of the year,
we'd actually be around a 5%
unemployment rate already. So that
supply side labor dynamic has been
really impactful in terms of
unemployment overall. you know, feds of
years past would have seen four and a
half% on the unemployment rate and been
celebrating or cheering. Whereas, you
have to think about, okay, we have an
aging economy. We have some demographic
headwinds relative to people retiring,
dropping out of the workforce. We have
immigration policies that are changing
quite significantly. And as we think
about the unemployment rates, you know,
that's just one factor. If we have fewer
people in the labor market who are, you
know, kind of productively contributing
to the economy, that also has some
impact and a domino effect on things
like spending and consumption. So, all
of these things are are very related and
it's important to not just put too much
stock in that one. You know, 4.5% is not
a terrible level in a long-term historic
perspective. you need the context around
it in order to really understand why
that 4.5% is is actually worrying. So
what do you expect the Fed to do with
all of this?
>> Now the Fed is in a sticky spot, right?
And I think as it relates to markets,
markets want policy stability and they
want policy clarity. What we've seen
over the past couple of years is as the
Fed is kind of preparing to cut rates,
markets are really strong, right? They
like that that stability of policy, the
relative low volatility environment for
rates and also equities is very
supportive overall to markets. So I
think if the Fed just kind of continues
to sit on their hands and message a um
expectation that you know we're ready to
continue to ease policy if the data are
within that realm of it is appropriate
to ease policy markets are going to
react favorably to that mostly because
of the technical. Now, where we get
worried is the longer you wait and the
longer you wait, that increases the risk
that the economy is going to break one
way or another because the aggregated
data do tend to mask some very specific
trends that are lingering below the
surface that could be more detrimental
or or more positive as well.
>> Winnie Caesar of Credit Sites, thank you
so much. It is a complicated moment and
one that we will continue to analyze.
Look forward to seeing you again. Right
now in markets you can see people
analyzing it saying well maybe this is a
viable dip because ultimately it seems
as though the AI cycle is one unto
itself. Coming up next as we head to
that core CPE print Victoria Fernandez
of Crossmark Greek Prime Minister
Kuryakis Mitsatakis former St. Louis Fed
President Jim Bullard and Ryan Wang of
HSBC. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
We think inflation is going to continue
to move lower once we get past this
little bump related to tariffs. The pass
through of the tariffs into inflation
has just been a lot slower than what I'd
expected.
>> Tariffs are going to increase prices.
>> I don't think that we should be pulling
our hair out that inflation is about to
take off again.
>> If inflation starts accelerating, I
mean, you can't rule out that they skip
December.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. 30 minutes away from key
inflation data. We get core PCE income
and spending coming out in about uh 29
minutes time. The market may be
shrugging off what's going on in
Washington DC with more terrorists being
announced and a potential shutdown, but
traders are hinging on every hint of
what a cutting cycle could look like
from the Federal Reserve with really
inflation front and center in terms of
how much Emory is going to tie the hands
of Fed officials. But I still come back
to what Powell said at Jackson Hole and
reiterated again this week. The fact
that we might have one-time price
adjustments, but they might not be all
at once. Basically, is he giving
everyone the green light just to look
through even if today we get a hotter PC
print? So, the way it's going to go
today is we get that core PCE print as
well as spending, personal spending. How
much does that continue running hot,
especially given what we saw yesterday
in terms of personal consumption with
the GDP and how much that drove an
upgrade to what we saw in recent months?
We're also going to be getting
University of Michigan sentiment survey,
which will be interesting and I know you
can say it's got some hair on it, but it
speaks to this question of how much are
consumers starting to increase their
inflation expectations. And then we're
also going to hear from Mickey Bowman on
the Federal Reserve. I think you're
right, Amory, to bring up this idea.
What's the reaction function from the
Fed? We don't know. We don't know how
far they're willing to look through
this. But right now, after seeing a
heavy one-way trade of yields downward,
we have seen them creep a little bit
higher ahead of what could be just a
little bit more of a hot print. But we
just heard from Richmond Fred President
Barkin. Uh Tom Barkin talking about
really only a limited risk of further
deterioration on both fronts and that
they're just now trying to basically
land this plane. He didn't seem that
concerned. And when Mike McKe kept
asking about are you concerned about the
tariffs, he said broadly the tariff fog
has lifted and companies have more
direction. At the same time just hours
ago the president of United States
unleashed a slew of new 232 tariffs when
it comes to a number of different
sectors in the United States. So it is
really difficult to see how actually the
fog has lifted. may be writ large. We
have the direction of travel and there's
an understanding from companies in the
markets, but as Kellyanne Shaw said,
president's never going to be dealt with
tariffs. Well, the fog has lifted at
least for stock traders as you see
heading into the open. A little bit more
of a positive tilt across the board. S&P
futures have been flat all morning,
clawing back from some earlier losses.
NASDAQ also uh has been clawing back
near session highs now on both fronts.
S&P futures up about a tenth of a
percent. Meanwhile, what we are seeing
is dollar strength at least yesterday
and the day before today. A bit of euro
strength as it really toggles around
this 116 level. A question of how much
the sort of one-way weak dollar trade
will get reversed if we do get ongoing
strong data that questions just how far
the Fed can cut and yields just
marginally lower with the 10-year 4.16%.
Again, not a lot of concern about the
Fed losing enough credibility that could
lead to some sort of runaway inflation.
Coming up this hour, Victoria Fernandez
of Cross Market Stocks look to get back
on track. The Prime Minister of Greece,
don't miss this Kuryakis Mitsakeis as
the UN General Assembly is winding down
and former Fed President Jim Bullard as
we break down the latest inflation data.
We begin this hour with stocks looking
to snap a three-day losing streak.
Victoria Fernandez of Crossmark writing,
"Sentiment is leaning toward an extreme
level, but we aren't there yet and
anticipate markets moving higher in the
near term." Victoria joins us now.
Victoria, we had three straight days of
losses. Keller, is this a buy the dip
moment?
>> It seems like every pullback has been a
buy the dip moment this year. Um, and I
think this is probably a good
opportunity as well, but not across the
board because we've lost some of that
underlying momentum in the equity
market. So, I don't think you can just
go in and say, "Let me buy everything."
But I do think there's sectors that
where you can be opportunistic where
you're seeing some of those really
strong trends. Those are tech, it's
financials, you're seeing it in
industrials. You're just starting to see
a trend. Uh strength in energy. I
wouldn't say go in and buy yet, but
watch that. That could be a place where
you could add. Um, but the defensive
part of the market, the staples, the
healthcare, they just continue uh to do
poorly. So, I'm not sure I would add
there, but there are some opportunities.
Victoria, how much do you lean into this
idea of a K-shaped recovery or as Peter
Shear called it, an I-shaped recovery
with a dot up top and everything else on
the bottom? this idea that personal
spending is hanging in there but largely
because of the upper 10% of income
earners and that they keep spending even
as you see spending power in the lower
uh income brackets really deteriorate.
How much can you just sort of
concentrate your investments putting
aside social implications etc on areas
that benefit from that while fading into
some of the areas more leveraged to
everything else?
Yeah, Lisa, I don't think you can look
at it exclusively um from the consumer.
Yes, the consumer drives the economy,
but there's a lot of nuances. You were
talking with the previous guest about
the bifurcation between the higher
income earner and the lower income
earner. Um what's interesting is yes,
higher income earners right now are
still spending because the stock
market's high, because housing prices
are high. But remember, come spring of
next year, we have about $150 billion of
additional stimulus coming from tax
credits. Child tax credit, the salt
deduction will be adjusted, the standard
deduction is being adjusted. That's a
lot of stimulus coming in that's going
to benefit the lower income consumer and
they are more willing to spend their
additional dollar than the highincome
consumer who actually saves a lot of
those additional dollars that comes in.
So, I think what it does is it stretches
out this timeline where we're going to
see consumption continue to do well in
the near term because high-income
consumers are doing well because
corporations are not firing as much as
uh a lot of people anticipated. It's the
holiday season. Then we've got the
stimulus coming in next year. So, I
think there's a lot of elements here
that can serve as tailwinds to the
consumer. But once all that evaporates,
we have to wonder where we'll be. And
that's the part that makes us a little
nervous. Well, Victoria, also the
president overnight announced more
tariff rates. At the same time, we just
heard from the Fed's bargain, who says
the consumers are exhausted by price
increases. Do corporations have the
power to continuously pass on price
increases to the US consumer?
>> Yeah, you know, Amry, it's interesting
because we haven't seen those prices
flow through to consumers as much as we
anticipated we would, but yet you're not
seeing margins compressed for these
corporations. Look at uh margins
expectations for the next next quarter
this earning season 14%.
So if margins are holding up then I
think corporations are okay to hold
prices somewhat level. Will they
increase a little bit? Probably. But I
think a lot of that has to do with the
fact also that we haven't seen a lot of
the more expensive inventory come in
yet. So maybe that cost of goods sold
goes up over the next couple of quarters
and then we start to see the adjustment
on the corporate side. Um, and I don't
think they're going to be able to push
all of that pricing through the
consumer. That's when the consumer says,
"We're done. We're pulling back."
>> There's also this question about whether
policy is legal or not. The court is
still going to decide on whether or not
the president can use AIPA to enact the
broad-based tariffs when it comes to
countries. Lisa was asking a great point
earlier. How is the market going to
react if the Supreme Court says using
AIPA is illegal?
I was reading an article yesterday and
they had a great line that said the
Supreme Supreme Court is not deciding if
tariffs are going to be put in place,
but how they're going to be put in place
because the administration already has
backup plans lined up in order to put
tariffs back in place. Section 232,
those are legal. That's what we saw last
night with some of those elements coming
in and some of the other ways that the
administration could put tariffs in
gives you a 10 15% limit um on tariffs
which is kind of where we ended up for a
lot of countries anyway and I think that
might have been part of the the plan for
this administration knowing that they
could get a negative reaction from the
Supreme Court on this. So there could be
some volatility in the markets around
it. But I think looking out tariffs will
probably remain, but there might be uh
some volatility in regards to how they
get implemented. I don't think we're
going to have to see a large amount of
refunds go out. I think the Supreme
Court realizes that would be quite
detrimental to the economy.
>> Before we let you go, Victoria, this
used to be a really data dependent
market that hinged on every potential
move from the Fed. as much as fretting
about what happened in Washington and DC
and then deciding to ignore it. I'm just
wondering about 20 minutes away from
that core PCE print. Where do you think
the bias is in terms of markets right
now? How offsides could it be if there
is an upside or downside surprise?
>> I think it really depends on the
magnitude of the offside. If it's just a
little bit, a tenth or so, I don't think
the market uh frets too much. They
believe the Fed's going to continue to
lower rates and that's what they're
moving forward with. If it's a larger
upside surprise, then I think the
markets start to worry and say, "Wait a
minute, maybe we don't get two more
cuts, which I don't think we get this
year anyway, but maybe it also affects
what we're looking at for 2026 and where
that neutral rate's going to be." So, I
think it would have to be a pretty large
difference for the market to really have
a strong reaction.
>> Victoria Fernandez of Crossmark, thank
you so much for that. Have a wonderful
weekend. Right now, I do want to bring
to you some news. Boeing is supposedly
getting the FAA okay to do final safety
checks on the 737
Max. This being reported, Emory, by the
Wall Street Journal.
>> Yeah. And then that would mean lifting
the cap on Boeing 737 Max production. Um
easing those restrictions from the FAA
and we saw immediate move in Boeing.
This is a huge sign of relief for for
the company, for management. Of course,
the stock now up more than 3% this
morning. Yeah, we'll be following that
with a vote of confidence from a lot of
the uh airlines as well in terms of
getting their production back online.
Right now, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. President Trump
announcing a fresh round of tariffs. The
administration is imposing a 100% tariff
on name brand pharmaceuticals. That is
effective October 1st unless producers
build manufacturing plants in the United
States. New duties will also hit
imported heavy trucks and furniture.
President Trump promising not to allow
Israel to annex the West Bank. When
asked about Israeli leaders suggesting
seizing control of parts of the
territory, Trump saying quote, "It's not
going to happen." This comes ahead of
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's
visit to the United States next week.
And lawyers for Fed Governor Lisa Cook
asked the Supreme Court not to allow
President Trump to immediately remove
her, saying the move would quote, "Sound
the death nail for the central bank
independence." The administration has
asked the court to permit the president
to remove Cook while litigation
continues over the legality of her
firing. That is your Bloomberg brief. Up
next, the prime minister of Greece,
Kuryakis Mitsatakus, as the UN General
Assembly is winding down. Do not miss
that conversation. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]
Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Right now, Marcus, trying
to claw back after three straight days
of losses. A bit of a lift uh in the S&P
and the NASDAQ. A really important
conversation. Let's get right to it.
Bloomberg News editor-inchief uh John
Mikkelthweight is standing by with a
very special guest. John, I'll send it
to you. Lisa, thank you very much. We
have Kiryakos Smith, prime minister of
Greece here with us. Um, we jump
straight in. Lot of movement on Ukraine
this week. You've had Trump saying stuff
about it. You have various NATO allies
getting cross about the fighter jets
incursing into their territory and
warning Russia about it. You even had
Germany coming forward and saying,
"Let's use the $140 billion billion euro
frozen assets to help Ukraine." Now you
have always been a kind of champion of
this idea of having a common European
fund for defense and you've always had
push back from the Germans on that. Do
you think now it stands a chance of
going through?
>> Well, thanks for having me, John. I've
been advocating for quite some time
about the need to create some joint
European borrowing facility to cover
what I consider the quintessential
European public good, which is common
European defense. And I do sense that
there is much more momentum now amongst
my colleagues. Some of the countries
that were inherently against the idea of
additional further joint borrowing have
changed their mind and I'm pretty sure
that Germany will eventually also agree
to this necessity. Uh and we need to
make sure that this facility finances
projects uh of common interest and I
would put missile defense, drone defense
um right up there in terms of our uh
collective European priorities. So I
would expect some movement soon. We have
two European councils uh and hopefully
we can make progress towards that
direction.
>> Just looking at the economy at the
moment, the Greek economy has been doing
very well as no doubt you will tell me,
but in in 2024 you forecast a deficit
and then you ended up with a surplus and
this year you're again forecasting a a
deficit, but it's quite close to the end
of the year. I wondered if now you're
close enough to say this year you you'll
end up with a surplus again for the
>> Well, we've been having we've been
producing significant primary surpluses
and I I think it's quite possible that
we may have a real surplus again this
year. This is a foundation of our
economic policy. We've suffered a lot um
from not being fiscally disciplined.
This is not going to happen again. But I
think the big success of our policy is
to ensure that the economy is growing at
the same time that to create jobs. We've
created 500,000 jobs since I became
prime minister. And the real goal is to
ensure that this collective wealth is
spread equally. So my focus now is to
use whatever fiscal space I can create
through growth and tackling tax evasion
to cut taxes for the middle class. It's
important for me that this discussion is
not just limited to the the economist
saying good things about the economy. I
want the average Greek um to really feel
a tangible benefit from this growth
story. And starting January 1st when
these tax cuts will kick in, they will
see a real increase in their paychecks.
And this is very very important to me.
>> Just come back to the the average Greek
in a second. You just mentioned fiscal
discipline. I mean you look at the core
of Europe. I sat down with Prime
Minister Sanchez of Spain the other day
as well.
Something dramatic has changed. You know
Greece, Spain, you're the countries
growing really fast. In the middle
you've got countries in much greater
trouble. You look at France, you're
growing, let me know over 2%. They're
struggling to get to half a percent of
growth. their debt is ballooning. Is it
are we now in a situation where you
would worry about financial contagion
from France?
>> This seemed inconceivable a few years
ago. What I can tell you is that
eventually no one can beat the markets.
We know this very very well. Uh and I I
do think that at some point governments
have to take you know difficult decision
to put their fiscal house in order.
We've done that. Once you do it then you
can enter into this virtuous um cycle
where you can actually grow the economy,
you can cut taxes, uh you can support um
income through targeted measures. Uh we
are there but we also went through very
very difficult periods. Um and very
painful uh reforms. Uh so I I do hope
that the political situation in France
somehow uh stabilizes. It is important
that the core of Europe you know France,
Germany that these economies are doing
well. Look at I mean we we got we we
will receive 36 million tourists this
year. Our tourism industry is is booming
but if our core markets don't do well we
will also at some point indirectly be
affected.
>> Your famously polite man but and I know
that shardan freder is not a Greek word
it's a German one but there must be some
element in Greece of looking at these
people who nearly push Greece out and
thinking well things have changed. Well,
things things have changed, but at the
end of the day, um this is not about,
you know, pointing fingers uh or about
saying that you were wrong and we were
right. Uh it's about ensuring that
Europe collectively grows. I'm
disappointed by the fact that when I
look at the drugy report, we have not
made significant progress. And I think
it's time that you know you know in in
Europe, we were usually wear two hats at
the council. We wore our European hat
and we wore our national hat. And it
seems to me that for some countries the
European hat seems to be shrinking. So
we have to look at the big picture. Some
of the decisions uh that we need to take
um require more funding. It's pretty
clear and uh we need to put u you know
our European interest not necessarily
ahead of our national interest but to
realize that some difficult decisions
need to be taken at the European level.
>> One of the areas where Europe has been
pretty useless at doing these things is
banking the banking union and things
like that. Italy's Uni Credit has built
up a stake in Alphab Bank, which you
were famously much more relaxed about
than the Germans were when they when
they built up one in Commerce Bank.
>> Would you be prepared if if they were to
take over Alpha Bank, would you be
relaxed about that?
>> Uh, if we if we if we really mean um um
uh what we say about creating scale in
banking union, we should be open to
these types of transactions. I see value
when an important foreign bank wants to
acquire a stake in a Greek bank. It
means they believe in the potential of
the Greek economy and it means that you
know the bank could possibly do better.
I'm pushing my banks to extend more
credit to mortgages to small mediumsiz
enterprises. The stronger their balance
sheet is the the more likely it is that
they will do so. Yes, in principle we
are in favor of these transactions. Uh
uh and I'm happy that Uni Credit has
decided to look at one of our Greek
banks and take a significant stake.
Isn't that but as you said earlier
that's the kind of problem with Europe
at the moment. Most people are taking
these decisions on I suppose purely
nationalist or or that kind of level.
You look around Europe at the moment the
ability to create common things like a
banking union that's the real problem at
the moment and do you think that is
something coming from Brussels or from
the national capitals?
>> I think um most of the important if if
you want to understand what's happening
in Brussels look at the national
capitals. uh I think this um the council
has become more complicated in terms of
of taking decisions but on the other
hand you know in the past you know we
took an a momentous decision when we had
to address CO um is is Ukraine a
geopolitical co moment I would argue to
a certain extent yes uh and I remember
the the co fund negotiations there were
a lot of countries including Germany
that said no until they said yes so when
it comes to defense which as I said is
the ultimate European public good. Uh I
do expect uh that we will be able to
take important uh decisions uh to target
uh uh specific European projects which
would then again require European
collaboration.
>> You talked a bit earlier about the
average Greek. I was looking at the
numbers. Greek GDP has come soaring back
but it's still roughly the same level in
nominal terms as it was before the
crisis. Bit lower in real terms. Is that
still do you think Greece has now been
through that phase and it's now the
terms of looking forward to a different
form of Greece?
We've we have clearly turned the page
but as I said if we want to converge
with Europe we need to grow faster than
Europe. We've been doing this but this
growth needs to be qualitatively
different needs to focus on investment
on innovation on exports on creating
really valuable jobs and my main goal is
to ensure that wages wages increase that
we have wage convergence with Europe and
that uh we support disposable income at
a time when all European economies are
faced with a cost of living crisis. mean
and the only way to address uh this is
to ensure that we support disposable
income but we have to do it in a
fiscally sustainable way. That's uh what
we have done so far. We will continue
doing it. I do expect that next year we
will again you know uh perform very
well. Uh so I tell my fellow Greek
citizens that I think the best days are
ahead of us and that this is a policy
that will deliver long-term benefits to
them.
>> You have elections coming up in 2027.
The polls at the moment say you be you
might have to go into coalition with
people. You've won two terms. You I
think you'd be the first person to get a
a third term if you did. Would you would
you be prepared to go into coalition if
>> I mean elections are 18 months ahead 18
months out. We are way ahead in the
polls. U our goal is to win an absolute
majority. We've done it twice. There
were people doubting that we would
succeed before the previous elections. I
think that if we deliver on our um uh on
our commitments uh and if the economy
continues growing, if we work hard to
improve the national health service,
these are the priorities I set out in
2023, we have a reasonable chance um to
win an absolute majority. But if the
Greek people decide otherwise uh it's
eventually we have to respect their
their decision.
>> We will look forward um to following you
through that. Um Kas, Mr. Takis, thank
you very much for talking to Bloomberg.
>> Thank you. Thank you, John, for having
me. Bloomberg News editor-inchief John
Mkel. Thank you so much for that
terrific interview with the Greek prime
minister Kuryakis Mitsatakis talking and
really to me this stood out Emory the
idea that for several real years running
the Greek government has said that they
are going to end the year with a deficit
and each year they were sandbagging and
they ended with a budget surplus and uh
what the prime minister just said there
is it's highly likely that they will
once again this year. Isn't it so
interesting too also how the tables have
turned a lot in Europe since the debt
crisis and it was the periphery that was
really on the back and struggling but
actually what we've seen is there's been
tremendous amount of investment tourism
actually going to the periphery and
really the big issue right now in Europe
is China coming in and hollowing out the
industrial base and most notably that is
happening in Germany.
>> Yeah and that is something a story that
we will continue to follow. We are just
minutes away from the latest round of
PCE data which is set to cross core PCE
plus personal income and spending. A
real question here about whether that
will hamper some of the Fed's ability to
cut rates more aggressively. Uh we'll
also be speaking with former Fed
President Jim Bullard to discuss what we
just saw. That's coming up next. Right
now, markets getting a bit of a bid
after three straight days of declines
trying to break that. Do you get a sense
of some sort of push? This idea that
inflation is coming in just enough to
give the Fed the green light to go ahead
two more times this year. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Less than 30 seconds away from a core
PCE reading. We are expecting an
increase of 0.2% 2% which is below where
we were the previous month of 0.3%.
We're also going to be getting personal
income, personal spending heading into
that. Stocks up across the board
building as we get closer to the opening
bell. S&P futures up to ten of a
percent. Expectation the Fed will be
greenlighted to cut rates. The latest
inflation data about to cross with
Michael McKe in Washington DC. We are
still waiting on some of those numbers.
It does seem like the market expects the
Fed to look through Mike any potential
bump up in inflation even if we do see
that.
Well, the markets are basically not
expecting a huge change and uh we don't
really get a huge change. Although the
uh PCE price index for the month of
August is up at 3/10 which is as
forecast a little higher than it was
last month puts the year-over-year rate
at 2.7% just as forecast and the core
rate comes in at 2/10 same as forecast a
little lower than last month and that
leaves us at 2.9%. So, no real change in
the inflation picture. Although, as we
talked about with Tom Barkin earlier
today, it's not getting any better. It's
just not getting any worse in the month
of August. Personal income up 4/10en of
a percent. What we need to do here is uh
see what the wage and salary component
of that is, and I'll check that out. But
personal spending comes in stronger than
anticipated, up 6/10 of a percent. The
uh forecast was for 510. It was 510 last
month. Uh so far no revision. Let's see
uh what we get uh in the next few
minutes. But basically uh it shows the
American consumer hanging in there and
it looks like they have the incomes to
do that and maybe the economy is a
little stronger than expected which
takes us back to uh Mr. Barkin and what
he said about uh the downside risks
maybe are a little bit less uh prominent
than they were before we got the
revisions yesterday to GDP and before we
get these numbers today. Mike, I'll give
you a second to go through all of the
line items just to give you a sense of
what the market reaction is. We aren't
seeing much of one. Maybe just a little
bit of an increase in yields, but now
lower uh on the front end of the yield
curve. Essentially, people looking
through any kind of strength saying
inline is a beat almost in a good way.
The idea that we could potentially see a
Fed that justifies cutting rates. We
didn't see that upside surprise in any
kind of dramatic fashion. And I think
that was what people were most concerned
about. You could see it across the board
down by about a basis point, twos, tens,
and 30s. When you take a look at what
that means for the equity picture, well,
it's not a disruption and that's a good
thing. And so, you are seeing gains
continue to build. That was clearly the
fear in markets that maybe we would get
an upside surprise that could hamper the
Fed's uh cutting plans. Russell 2000 up
310 of a percent. A market shift from
earlier this morning, up about a half a
percent from some of the lows and
futures earlier in the session. You
could see NASDAQ up about the same as
well as S&P. And then when you bleed it
through the currency market, dollar
weakness, I guess cutting back on means
the dollar can rally verse the the
dollar can weaken versus the euro. The
euro can continue its rally after two
days, two straight days of uh dollar
strengthening. Mike, you've had a couple
of seconds to look through all of the
information. Does anything stand out to
you?
>> Well, one thing that stands out, Lisa,
is that personal income wages and
salaries were up 3/10en in August.
That's a climb down from what we saw in
July, a half% gain. Uh but uh does that
mean that we're going to suddenly turn
cold? Hard to know. It'll depend on uh
the continuation of all this whether
people still feel they have the money.
Uh and of course, we did get all these
additional tariffs overnight. So that's
going to be a question of uh how people
react to that. I'm not sure that tariffs
on uh some uh big trucks are going to
cause people to cut back on spending,
but it might affect business spending.
But if we do see uh tariffs continue to
be put on goods, especially on
prescription drugs, that could have an
impact on confidence, which is a little
tease ahead to 10:00 this morning,
Eastern time, when we get the Michigan
Confidence figures.
>> Michael McKith, thank you so much uh for
breaking that all down. If you're just
joining us right now, we did get that
core PCE figure which came in bang in
line 0.2% increase following a 0.3% the
prior month. It was revised downward for
the prior month. Uh 0.2% personal income
and personal spending. That's where it
gets pretty interesting to me. The idea
that you could get an upside surprise on
both, particularly personal spending,
0.6% increase versus a 0.5% increase
expected. And real personal spending
increasing 0.4%. 4% versus a 0.2%
expected and it was actually revised
upward in the prior reading as well.
Amarie, it seems like people keep
spending and that has been the engine
that keeps on giving to the American
economy. People keep spending jobless
claims yesterday very strong number and
now when it comes to PCE bang in line.
So what is their actually you look at
the data like this what is there
actually to worry about? When I do see
spending though increasing, I do wonder
how many people are like members of my
family who went out concerned about the
tariffs and are continuing to spend now
and they are concerned about the
holidays coming up and they don't want
the prices to go up. So, they're willing
to go out and spend a ton now. I guess
remains to be seen.
>> Yeah, that's one reason why people are
listening to earnings. Former St. Louis
Fed President Jim Bullard joins us now.
And I'm so excited to speak with you,
Jim, because right now I'm looking at
all of this data that suggests a really
strong US market, a really strong US
economy, people continuing to be able to
spend and their incomes rising. What
about this picture makes you think that
the Fed needs to be cutting rates more
aggressively?
>> Yeah, thanks for having me. So, uh,
these numbers look to me like they're,
uh, they're consistent with what markets
were expecting. Uh I think markets have
a reaceleration uh hypothesis and I'm
I'm sympathetic with that. So I do think
uh the economy will be in pretty good
shape for the rest of this year and into
2026 as some of the new uh
administration policies come online. Uh
on the inflation side, there's no
surprise here. So, uh, that seems to be
very consistent with the committee's
story that, uh, they'll be able to look
through inflation and then expect it to
fall in 2026. So, I think this leaves
everything on track, uh, to have further
rate cuts uh, during the next two
meetings of the FOMC.
>> Just to put this into perspective, this
is what the market was expecting. And so
there is this rally across the board as
people say okay the Fed can keep cutting
even though you are seeing this strength
and potentially reaceleration Jim as you
were putting yet year-over-year core PCE
that key metric that the uh Fed looks at
is at 2.9%. It's not climbing. It might
even be going down to 2.8% but it's
still almost a full percentage point
above 2%. Is there a feeling that it
just isn't really important to get it
down to 2% that quickly? And so you can
look through that.
>> Uh no, they do want to get it down uh to
to 2% uh over the next two years. Uh so
you want to asmtote in to 2% I would say
not not go very quickly to 2% or go
under uh uh and overshoot. So I think
you know usually the way this is thought
about is that you want to gradually
bring it down. Uh I think the
committee's on track uh to do that. Uh
and so that part looks uh looks pretty
good.
>> So is the committee almost looking
through inflation? Have they been given
the green light by the Fed chair to look
through if there's going to be any hot
print prints upcoming when it comes to
inflation?
>> Yeah, I I do think that the chair at
Jackson Hall uh very much signed on to
the idea that uh any inflationary
effects coming through the tariff
channel would be uh smaller than
previously anticipated. and they're
coming uh later than previously
anticipated. And so because of that,
this is basically a look through. So
even if even though you say uh like uh
President Barkin said, well, it's not
getting any better. Uh for those that
thought there was an important tariff
component to inflation, uh that part
should go away since that's a one-time
effect. And so that's giving the
committee confidence that they can go
ahead and get to uh closer to neutral.
They'll still have a, you know, still be
a restrictive policy, still putting
downward pressure on inflation, but not
as intensely as what they're doing right
now.
>> Well, when it comes to inflation, we
heard from Governor Meerin almost
insinuate not right now, but maybe in
the future the Fed should actually have
more of a range in terms of their
target. Could you see the Fed moving
towards that? Maybe targeting two to 3%
instead of just 2% across the board.
Yes, a classic issue in inflation
targeting. Uh the US has come down on
the side of just having a target. Uh
it's simpler communication. It doesn't
leave ambiguity around uh having a
range. One of the problems uh for
countries that have had ranges is that
you know the top of the range then
becomes okay as opposed to the midpoint
of the range. So uh it can be
interpreted as slippage in your
commitment to keep inflation low and
stable. and households do not like the
inflation. So, I think it's incumbent on
the Federal Reserve to make sure
inflation stays low and stable.
>> Jim, I'm trying to get a sense of how a
data dependent Fed deals with the
potential of not getting data. Next
week, we're supposed to get the non-farm
payrolls report on Friday, October 3rd.
Ostensibly, that could be after the
government shutdown where we do not get
that data print. How problematic would
that be for the Federal Reserve given
how balanced right now a lot of people
feel the risks are?
>> Yeah. Uh well, it's disturbing to not
get uh uh as much data as you can on the
state of the economy and and uh so that
would be a concern, but the the Fed has
managed through that in previous
episodes uh around uh government
shutdown. So, I think it's manageable,
but it's not an ideal situation. It
feels like a really messy moment because
not only is there questions about are
there questions about the integrity of
the data, when we get the data, which
data to look at, what the data is
measuring, but there are these sort of
sea changes that are overlaid on top of
it. Whether it's different areas,
different income earners that are
earning a lot and able to spend, lower
income workers that are feeling the
pinch of inflation and not seeing the
same types of uh labor gains. I just
wonder if the Fed should think of a new
paradigm, a new benchmark to sort to
understand exactly what the optimal
employment level is and how they should
weigh these two risks.
>> Yeah, I do think it's a good time to
review our models and uh think about uh
what you know, how are we going to do
this over the next decade? Uh could we
do better than uh where we've been? I
think we've been more or less
preoccupied with the pandemic and the
reaction to the aftermath of the of the
pandemic, but that's pretty much behind
us now. So, now would be a good moment
to uh really do a thoroughgoing review
of uh how the Fed operates and and how
the models work. Uh I guess one thing
I'd like to do is have a what some I'd
like to do what other central banks
sometimes do is have a parallel process
where you have a new model uh getting
ready uh and run that in parallel and
then have a cut over point at some point
in the future where you actually switch
to the new model. So I think uh we could
do things like that and that's maybe
something to consider at this point.
Governor Lisa Cook is warning, her
attorneys are warning that the removal
of her could cause chaos and disruption
in financial markets. What do you think
the reaction will be in financial
markets if she is removed?
Uh I I think that the court will uh
insist that she gets due process for
whatever charges have been made against
her. So that you uh that would prevent
uh political partisans from just making
charges against members of the committee
without having to prove those charges
and then calling that uh cause uh and
allowing people to be dismissed from the
uh FOMC on that basis. So I think uh I
think that you know the the uh people on
the Supreme Court will make uh the
justices will probably come down in some
way to protect that due process clause.
>> Former Fed President uh Jim Bullard,
thank you so much. Uh from the St. Louis
Fed, now currently at uh Purdue, thank
you so much for being with us and of
course a potential candidate to be the
next Fed chair. a real question here
about how to weigh the risks given the
fact that what you are seeing is
strength. You're seeing strength in the
consumer in particular which just keeps
on spending
>> strength in the consumer. PCE is coming
bang in line and also the jobless claims
yesterday pointing to like maybe
actually labor market is holding up. I
love your question though about the
data. What if the data dependent Fed
doesn't have the data next Friday? You
look at other data and that seems to be
the answer. How do you cut though
without the data? But it creates it
creates a very complicated moment. Right
now, let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere. Here's your Bloomberg brief
with Yahira. Yahira.
>> Hi, Lisa. I want to start with the recap
of the latest economic data you just
broke a few minutes ago. Core PCE rose
210 of a percent from a month ago in
line with estimates as did the broader
PCE up 3/10en of 1% while US personal
spending rose more than forecast as the
consumer remained resilient.
Meanwhile, Amazon is paying up to settle
a lawsuit from the FTC. The company will
pay $1 billion in civil penalties and
refund $1.5 billion to customers to
resolve allegations it misled millions
into signing up for Prime and then
making it intentionally difficult to
cancel. Amazon customers will receive
refunds of as much as $51.
And the 45th Riter Cup is officially
underway, teeing off this morning at
Beth Paige Black in New York. The
opening match features the American duo
of Bryson Dashambo and Justin Thomas
taking on Europe's John Rom and Tyrell
Hatton. The world's number one player,
Scotty Shoffler, partners with Russell
Henley for Team USA's second pairing
today, and President Trump is set to
arrive around midday. That's been brief.
Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Ryder Cup John off
coincidence. I know, right? That I don't
know.
>> I don't think it's a coincidence.
>> Up next, Ryan Wong of HSBC as we break
down the latest inflation data. Plus,
Danny Berger with your morning movers.
Easing restrictions, lifting Boeing and
Spirit Aeros Systems. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]
These numbers look to me like they're uh
they're consistent with what markets
were expecting. Uh I think markets have
a reaceleration uh hypothesis and I'm
I'm sympathetic with that. So, I do
think uh the economy will be in pretty
good shape for the rest of this year and
into 2026 as some of the new uh
administration policies come online.
>> That was former St. Louis Fed President
Jim Bullard talking after we got that
core PCE data as well as personal income
and spending, exceeding expectations,
core PCE coming in pretty much in line,
which was a beat for markets. Markets
are rallying on the yields of that. You
could take a look at 2-year yields,
10-year yields, and 30-year yields. All
lower on the heels of data that shows no
surprise. And that was really the story.
Uh 10-year yields have been pretty
stable around that 416. 2-year yields at
365. If you take a look at what that
means for equities, well, it means what
it does mean these days, which is
equities up. Uh not necessarily the
torpedo for the Russell 2000 that people
were worried about about 2 hours ago.
Right now, up almost 310 of a percent.
Similar moves across the other indices.
Uh, and if you bleed it through the
foreign exchange, you could see a bit of
dollar weakness, euro strength under 45
minutes away from the cash open. Let's
get to your morning movers, Danny
Burger. Danny, hey Lisa, some news from
the journal in the past hour and that is
sending Boeing shares higher by about 4%
in one of its suppliers, Spare Arow
Systems, up 3%. The FAA looking at
easing some of the restrictions on
Boeing that would allow employees to
have more of a say in the safety final
safety signoffs and less involvement
from the FAA itself. easing of those
regulations sending shares higher this
morning. In other DC news, also from the
Journal moving shares this morning, is a
plan for the Trump administration to get
more chip companies to use homegrown
manufacturers. So that's benefiting
Intel this morning. Shares are up 4%.
Global Foundaries, another domestic chip
manufacturing business, up 8.4%.
Finally, pharmaceuticals on the move
this morning after Trump said that there
would be an 100% tariff on patitin drugs
if they do not have manufacturing
facilities in the US. So, the US
companies that have been working on
building in the US, those shares are
moving higher. Eli, Lily, Merc, Abby,
all of them up by more than 1% this
morning. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Uh, and thank you so
much for this morning, Danny. Right now,
let's turn back to today's core PCE
results. We did see that inline reading
of 0.2% 2% as expected. Ryan Wang of
HSBC joins us now. Ryan, thank you so
much for being here. It's great to have
you on a Friday. What was your takeaway
from the data?
>> Yeah, thanks so much for having me.
Well, the data was pretty close to
expectations. I do think still it's
important that the year-on-year rate of
core inflation is getting ever so closer
to that 3% level. It actually doesn't
matter what measure of inflation you
look at, headline CPI, core CPI, either
of the PC measures, they're all running
close to 3%. That's not as high as it
was a couple years ago, but it's still,
of course, significantly higher than the
Fed's 2% target.
>> So, are we being gaslit when people say
it's just going to keep its downward
trajectory? Is this the real reality
that we're at a 3% inflation level and
that's probably where it's going to
continue even as we talk about some sort
of asmmptoic pro progression to 2% over
the next hundred years.
>> Yeah. Well, you know, I mean, that's a
very good point. And actually our own
projections do have us staying closer to
3% than getting down to 2% even in the
next 12 18 months. I think that's very
much the case. We've heard clearly from
Fed Chair Jerome Pal that okay, you can
call tariffs a one-time effect, but
that's a one-time effect that can last
several quarters well into next year,
maybe even beyond as the full effect of
those tariffs comes through. And you
know, at that point, we have to say,
well, what is that going to do to
inflation expectations along the way?
So, has the Fed basically just accepted
3% inflation without coming out and
saying that's our new target to Lisa's
point?
>> Well, I think
>> have they moved the goalpost on us?
>> I think this is why you see the divide
on on the Fed because clearly inflation
is running slower than it was a few
years ago, yet it never reached that 2%
level. So, you're never going to hear
any of the Fed policy makers say that,
okay, you know, they just reaffirmed the
2% target. They're not going to say that
3% is acceptable. But simply put, I do
think it's more likely that we'll be
closer to that higher number through the
end of next year.
>> What do you make of the tariff impact
right now? And I say this on the heels
of last night, us still trying to digest
exactly what is going to be tariffed in
terms of kitchen cabinets, bathroom
vanities, uh, furniture, upholstery
furniture, all these new sectoral
tariffs the Trump administration
announced.
>> Yeah. Well, we're entering act two of
tariffs, right? I mean all the focus up
until this point has mostly been on
these uh reciprocal tariffs but those
have had significant significant
sectoral exemptions and now those
exemptions are being filled in as we get
these proposed tariffs on these
products. So that's just another reason
why you know the full story of the
effect on consumer prices has yet to be
felt and yeah we're going to be watching
really in the rest of uh the year it's
going to be those sectoral tariffs that
I think take most of the airplay. just
uh to wrap up a week where we've gotten
a lot of commentary, a lot of
bullishness on the economy, on the idea
of a Fed that was going to be cutting
rates even into strength. I'm struck by
what Scott Croner of Cityroup had to say
when he was talking about how it feels
like there are two different markets. It
feels like there are those that are
touched by AI and the investment cycle
that we've seen and it feels like
there's everything else which hasn't
necessarily been as leveraged to the
gains that we've seen in markets to the
gains that we've seen from AI and the
other types of rising tides. And I just
wonder how when you look at this
aggregate data, you can parse that out
and understand why some people might be
feeling really rotten about the the pace
of inflation and the state of the labor
market while other people feel pretty
good and are flying around the world.
>> Yeah. Well, you know, I would say the
macroeconomic data do actually bear out
some of this characterization that you
you just said because really since the
start of this year, economic growth, we
just got new GDP numbers, we'll probably
be uh below 2% when when this year is
done, but we won't necessarily be below
1%. Right? So, despite all the focus on
the weaker employment growth numbers
that we've seen come through in recent
months, actually the expenditure data,
the GDP data, the output data have held
up reasonably well. And I think that
speaks to this split where of course
those that are seeing that hiring
activity is slower. Those trying to get
a job are are really being impacted by
that softer job market. Prices aren't
any lower regardless of how you're
fairing in the labor market. Right? So
again, that speaks to that inflation,
but at the same time, company sales
haven't necessarily weakened in the way
that the most pessimistic views would
have thought a few months ago.
>> This is a confusing moment and a
fascinating one. Ryan Wang, this has
been wonderful. Hopefully we can do it
again soon. and Ryan Wang of HSBC
joining us here on set. Uh just really
fascinating to see the data come in
stronger than expected when it comes to
personal income and spending. You saw
inflation come in line around almost 3%
core PCE. Yes, below some of the five
and 6% levels that we had seen a couple
of years ago. But it just points to this
idea that the market and the Fed seem to
have accepted a 3% inflation rate where
it is and don't seem to be in a rush to
really get it down. Muhammad Alen's been
talking about this way before Steve
Meyer was highlighting that potentially
we might have to target a band because
they are they failed in getting
inflation back 2%. That's what it is.
And it's going to be years until they
get it there. And if you're going to cut
rates because you're concerned about the
labor market, you tactically already
decided we are accepting 3% inflation.
You're just not saying it out loud.
Maybe it's just a journey. It's not
necessarily the destination. Coming up
Monday, Tony Despero of Black Rockck,
Pimco CEO Manny Roman, Henrietta Trace
of Veta Partners, and Jonathan Gulp of
Seapport Global. Do not miss that. This
was Bloomberg for Surveillance. Have a
wonderful weekend.
[Music]